EDUCATION CODE
TITLE 2. PUBLIC EDUCATION
SUBTITLE F. CURRICULUM, PROGRAMS, AND SERVICES
CHAPTER 33. SERVICE PROGRAMS AND EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES

SUBCHAPTER A. SCHOOL COUNSELORS AND COUNSELING PROGRAMS

      Sec. 33.002.  CERTIFIED SCHOOL COUNSELOR.  (a)  From funds appropriated for the purpose or other funds that may be used for the purpose, the commissioner shall distribute funds for programs under this subchapter. In distributing those funds, the commissioner shall give preference to a school district that received funds under this subsection for the preceding school year and then to the districts that have the highest concentration of students at risk of dropping out of school, as described by Section 29.081.  To receive funds for the program, a school district must apply to the commissioner.  For each school year that a school district receives funds under this subsection, the district shall allocate an amount of local funds for school guidance and counseling programs that is equal to or greater than the amount of local funds that the school district allocated for that purpose during the preceding school year. This section applies only to a school district that receives funds as provided by this subsection.
      (b)  A school district with 500 or more students enrolled in elementary school grades shall employ a school counselor certified under the rules of the State Board for Educator Certification for each elementary school in the district.  A school district shall employ at least one school counselor for every 500 elementary school students in the district.
      (c)  A school district with fewer than 500 students enrolled in elementary school grades shall provide guidance and counseling services to elementary school students by:
            (1)  employing a part-time school counselor certified under the rules of the State Board for Educator Certification;
            (2)  employing a part-time teacher certified as a school counselor under the rules of the State Board for Educator Certification; or
            (3)  entering into a shared services arrangement agreement with one or more school districts to share a school counselor certified under the rules of the State Board for Educator Certification.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 260, Sec. 1, eff. May 30, 1995.  Amended by Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 1276, Sec. 6.005(a), eff. Sept. 1, 2003.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 1328 (H.B. 3646), Sec. 39, eff. September 1, 2009.
      Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 443 (S.B. 715), Sec. 27, eff. June 14, 2013.
      Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 443 (S.B. 715), Sec. 28, eff. June 14, 2013.

      Sec. 33.003.  PARENTAL CONSENT.  The board of trustees of each school district shall adopt guidelines to ensure that written consent is obtained from the parent, legal guardian, or person entitled to enroll the student under Section 25.001(j) for the student to participate in those activities for which the district requires parental consent.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 260, Sec. 1, eff. May 30, 1995.

      Sec. 33.004.  PARENTAL INVOLVEMENT.  (a)  Each school shall obtain, and keep as part of the student's permanent record, written consent of the parent or legal guardian as required under Section 33.003.  The consent form shall include specific information on the content of the program and the types of activities in which the student will be involved.
      (b)  Each school, before implementing a comprehensive school counseling program under Section 33.005, shall annually conduct a preview of the program for parents and guardians.  All materials, including curriculum to be used during the year that is not available digitally through an instructional materials parent portal under Section 31.154, must be available for a parent or guardian to preview during school hours.  Materials or curriculum not included in the materials on an instructional materials parent portal or available on the campus for preview may not be used.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 260, Sec. 1, eff. May 30, 1995.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 352 (H.B. 18), Sec. 1.10, eff. December 1, 2019.
      Acts 2023, 88th Leg., R.S., Ch. 818 (H.B. 1605), Sec. 47, eff. June 13, 2023.

      Sec. 33.005.  COMPREHENSIVE SCHOOL COUNSELING PROGRAMS.  (a)  A school counselor shall work with the school faculty and staff, students, parents, and the community to plan, implement, and evaluate a comprehensive school counseling program that conforms to the most recent edition of the Texas Model for Comprehensive School Counseling Programs developed by the Texas Counseling Association.
      (b)  The school counselor shall design the program to include:
            (1)  a guidance curriculum to help students develop their full educational potential, including the student's interests and career objectives;
            (2)  a responsive services component to intervene on behalf of any student whose immediate personal concerns or problems put the student's continued educational, career, personal, or social development at risk;
            (3)  an individual planning system to guide a student as the student plans, monitors, and manages the student's own educational, career, personal, and social development; and
            (4)  system support to support the efforts of teachers, staff, parents, and other members of the community in promoting the educational, career, personal, and social development of students.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 260, Sec. 1, eff. May 30, 1995.  Amended by Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 1487, Sec. 2, eff. June 17, 2001.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 443 (S.B. 715), Sec. 29, eff. June 14, 2013.
      Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 352 (H.B. 18), Sec. 1.11, eff. December 1, 2019.

      Sec. 33.006.  SCHOOL COUNSELORS; GENERAL DUTIES.  (a)  The primary responsibility of a school counselor is to counsel students to fully develop each student's academic, career, personal, and social abilities.
      (b)  In addition to a school counselor's responsibility under Subsection (a), the school counselor shall:
            (1)  participate in planning, implementing, and evaluating a comprehensive developmental guidance program to serve all students and to address the special needs of students:
                  (A)  who are at risk of dropping out of school, becoming substance abusers, participating in gang activity, or committing suicide;
                  (B)  who are in need of modified instructional strategies; or
                  (C)  who are gifted and talented, with emphasis on identifying and serving gifted and talented students who are educationally disadvantaged;
            (2)  consult with a student's parent or guardian and make referrals as appropriate in consultation with the student's parent or guardian;
            (3)  consult with school staff, parents, and other community members to help them increase the effectiveness of student education and promote student success;
            (4)  coordinate people and resources in the school, home, and community;
            (5)  with the assistance of school staff, interpret standardized test results and other assessment data that help a student make educational and career plans;
            (6)  deliver classroom guidance activities or serve as a consultant to teachers conducting lessons based on the school's guidance curriculum; and
            (7)  serve as an impartial, nonreporting resource for interpersonal conflicts and discord involving two or more students, including accusations of bullying under Section 37.0832.
      (c)  Nothing in Subsection (b)(7) exempts a school counselor from any mandatory reporting requirements imposed by other provisions of law.
      (d)  Except as provided by Subsection (e), the board of trustees of each school district shall adopt a policy that requires a school counselor to spend at least 80 percent of the school counselor's total work time on duties that are components of a counseling program developed under Section 33.005.  For purposes of this subsection, time spent in administering assessment instruments or providing other assistance in connection with assessment instruments, except time spent in interpreting data from assessment instruments, is not considered time spent on counseling.  Each school in the district shall implement the policy.  A copy of the policy shall be maintained in the office of each school in the district and made available on request during regular school hours to district employees, parents of district students, and the public.
      (e)  If the board of trustees of a school district determines that, because of staffing needs in the district or at a school in the district, a school counselor must spend less than 80 percent of the school counselor's total work time on duties that are components of a counseling program developed under Section 33.005, the policy adopted under Subsection (d) shall:
            (1)  include the reasons why the counselor needs to spend less than 80 percent of the counselor's work time on duties that are components of the counseling program;
            (2)  list the duties the counselor is expected to perform that are not components of the counseling program; and
            (3)  set the percentage of work time that the counselor is required to spend on components of the counseling program.
      (f)  A school district may not include a provision in an employment contract with a school counselor under Chapter 21 that conflicts with the policy required by Subsection (d) or, except as provided by Subsection (g), has the effect of authorizing a school principal or school district superintendent to require a school counselor to generally perform duties that are not primarily related to a counseling function.
      (g)  A school district to which Subsection (e) applies may not include a provision in an employment contract under Chapter 21 with an affected school counselor that has the effect of requiring the counselor to generally perform a duty that is not primarily related to a counseling function unless the duty is specified in the district's policy under Subsection (e)(2).
      (h)  Each school district shall annually assess the district's compliance with the policy adopted under Subsection (d) and, on request by the commissioner, provide a written copy of the assessment to the agency on or before the date specified by the commissioner.  The commissioner shall adopt rules to implement this subsection.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 260, Sec. 1, eff. May 30, 1995.  Amended by Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 1487, Sec. 3, eff. June 17, 2001.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 443 (S.B. 715), Sec. 30, eff. June 14, 2013.
      Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 443 (S.B. 715), Sec. 31, eff. June 14, 2013.
      Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 522 (S.B. 179), Sec. 10, eff. September 1, 2017.
      Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 938 (S.B. 179), Sec. 1, eff. September 1, 2021.

      Sec. 33.007.  COUNSELING REGARDING POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION.  (a)  Each school counselor at an elementary, middle, or junior high school, including an open-enrollment charter school offering those grades, shall advise students and their parents or guardians regarding the importance of postsecondary education, coursework designed to prepare students for postsecondary education, and financial aid availability and requirements.
      (b)  During the first school year a student is enrolled in a high school or at the high school level in an open-enrollment charter school, and again during each year of a student's enrollment in high school or at the high school level, a school counselor shall provide information about postsecondary education to the student and the student's parent or guardian.  The information must include information regarding:
            (1)  the importance of postsecondary education, including:
                  (A)  career readiness and workforce training opportunities; and
                  (B)  a link to the My Texas Future Internet website and information regarding how to create a profile on that website;
            (2)  the advantages of earning an endorsement and a performance acknowledgment and completing the distinguished level of achievement under the foundation high school program under Section 28.025;
            (3)  the disadvantages of taking courses to prepare for a high school equivalency examination relative to the benefits of taking courses leading to a high school diploma;
            (4)  financial aid eligibility;
            (5)  instruction on how to apply for federal financial aid;
            (6)  the center for financial aid information established under Section 61.0776;
            (7)  the automatic admission of certain students to general academic teaching institutions as provided by Section 51.803;
            (8)  the eligibility and academic performance requirements for the TEXAS Grant as provided by Subchapter M, Chapter 56;
            (9)  the availability of programs in the district under which a student may earn college credit, including advanced placement programs, dual credit programs, joint high school and college credit programs, and international baccalaureate programs;
            (10)  the availability of education and training vouchers and tuition and fee waivers to attend an institution of higher education as provided by Section 54.366 for a student who is or was previously in the conservatorship of the Department of Family and Protective Services;
            (11)  the availability of college credit awarded by institutions of higher education to veterans and military servicemembers for military experience, education, and training obtained during military service as described by the informational materials developed under Section 302.0031(h), Labor Code;
            (12)  opportunities to complete career training and obtain a postsecondary credential while enrolled in high school, whether at the student's campus, another campus in the school district or open-enrollment charter school, or an educational institution that partners with the district or school, including:
                  (A)  information regarding program costs, program completion rates, and the average wages of students who complete the program; and
                  (B)  the availability of information regarding those opportunities on the My Texas Future Internet website; and
            (13)  the outcomes of graduates from the campus and school district or open-enrollment charter school in which the student is enrolled, including completion rates and average wages based on postsecondary pathways available to those graduates at the campus, district, or school using data posted under Section 7.0405(a) or available on the My Texas Future Internet website.
      (b-1)  When providing information under Subsection (b)(10), the school counselor must report to the student and the student's parent or guardian the number of times the counselor has provided the information to the student. 
      (b-2)  Information provided under Subsection (b)(11) must explain to any student who is enlisted or intends to enlist in the armed forces of the United States the informational materials developed under Section 302.0031(h), Labor Code.
      (c)  At the beginning of grades 10 and 11, a school counselor certified under the rules of the State Board for Educator Certification shall explain the requirements of automatic admission to a general academic teaching institution under Section 51.803 to each student enrolled in a high school or at the high school level in an open-enrollment charter school who has a grade point average in the top 25 percent of the student's high school class.
      (d)  The agency shall make available to school counselors an annual online training regarding statewide trends identified in the data posted under Section 7.0405(a) or available on the My Texas Future Internet website. The training must include information to assist school counselors in identifying the postsecondary outcomes for students at the counselor's campus and school district or open-enrollment charter school for purposes of performing the counselor's duties under this section.  The agency may make the training or other resources provided by the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board available through the Texas OnCourse Internet website.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 973 (S.B. 282), Sec. 2, eff. June 15, 2007.
      Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 1342 (S.B. 175), Sec. 4, eff. June 19, 2009.
      Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 29(a), effective beginning with the 2014-2015 school year.
      Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 211 (H.B. 5), Sec. 30(a), eff. June 10, 2013.
      Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 481 (H.B. 2537), Sec. 1, eff. June 9, 2017.
      Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 550 (S.B. 490), Sec. 1, eff. June 9, 2017.
      Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 37 (H.B. 114), Sec. 1, eff. May 16, 2019.
      Acts 2025, 89th Leg., R.S., Ch. 918 (H.B. 120), Sec. 9, eff. June 20, 2025.
      Acts 2025, 89th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1065 (H.B. 2), Sec. 6.09, eff. June 20, 2025.

      Sec. 33.009.  POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION AND CAREER COUNSELING ACADEMIES.  (a)  In this section, "coordinating board" means the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.
      (b)  The coordinating board shall develop and make available postsecondary education and career counseling academies for school counselors and other postsecondary advisors employed by a school district at a middle school, junior high school, or high school.
      (c)  In developing academies under this section, the coordinating board shall solicit input from the agency, school counselors, the Texas Workforce Commission, institutions of higher education, and business, community, and school leaders.
      (d)  An academy developed under this section must provide counselors and other postsecondary advisors with knowledge and skills to provide counseling to students regarding postsecondary success and productive career planning and must include information relating to:
            (1)  each endorsement described by Section 28.025(c-1), including:
                  (A)  the course requirements for each endorsement; and
                  (B)  the postsecondary educational and career opportunities associated with each endorsement;
            (2)  available methods for a student to earn credit for a course not offered at the school in which the student is enrolled, including enrollment in a virtual course provided under Chapter 30B;
            (3)  general academic performance requirements for admission to an institution of higher education, including the requirements for automatic admission to a general academic teaching institution under Section 51.803;
            (4)  regional workforce needs, including information about the required education and the average wage or salary for careers that meet those workforce needs; and
            (5)  effective strategies for engaging students and parents in planning for postsecondary education and potential careers, including participation in mentorships and business partnerships.
      (d-1)  An academy developed under this section may include information regarding social-emotional learning and indicators of behavioral issues.
      (e)  The coordinating board shall develop an online instructional program that school districts may use in providing the instruction in high school, college, and career preparation required by Section 28.016. The program must be structured for use as part of an existing course.
      (f)  Repealed by Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1001 (H.B. 2827), Sec. 2, eff. June 18, 2021.
      (g)  A teacher of a course described by Section 28.016(c)(2) or (3) may attend an academy developed under this section.
      (h)  From funds appropriated for that purpose, a school counselor who attends the academy under this section is entitled to receive a stipend in the amount determined by the coordinating board. If funds are available after all eligible school counselors have received a stipend under this subsection, the coordinating board shall pay a stipend in the amount determined by the coordinating board to a teacher who attends the academy under this section. A stipend received under this subsection is not considered in determining whether a district is paying the school counselor or teacher the minimum monthly salary under Section 21.402.
      (i)  From available funds appropriated for purposes of this section, the coordinating board may provide to school counselors and other educators curricula, instructional materials, and technological tools relating to postsecondary education and career counseling.
      (j)  Repealed by Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1001 (H.B. 2827), Sec. 2, eff. June 18, 2021.
Added by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 988 (H.B. 18), Sec. 5, eff. June 19, 2015.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 961 (S.B. 504), Sec. 1, eff. June 14, 2019.
      Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1001 (H.B. 2827), Sec. 1, eff. June 18, 2021.
      Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1001 (H.B. 2827), Sec. 2, eff. June 18, 2021.
      Acts 2025, 89th Leg., R.S., Ch. 5 (S.B. 569), Sec. 8, eff. May 6, 2025.

SUBCHAPTER B. LIBRARIES

      Sec. 33.020.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:
            (1)  "Harmful material" has the meaning assigned by Section 43.24, Penal Code.
            (2)  "Indecent content" means content that portrays sexual or excretory organs or activities in a way that is patently offensive.
            (3)  "Library material" means any book, record, file, or other instrument or document in a school district's library catalog.  The term does not include instructional material, as defined by Section 31.002, or materials procured for the TexShare consortium under Subchapter M, Chapter 441, Government Code.
            (4)  "Profane content" means content that includes grossly offensive language that is considered a public nuisance.
Added by Acts 2025, 89th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1126 (S.B. 13), Sec. 2, eff. September 1, 2025.

      Sec. 33.0205.  CONSTRUCTION OF SUBCHAPTER.  Nothing in this subchapter may be construed as limiting the acquisition of instructional material, as defined by Section 31.002, necessary for the teaching of, instruction in, or demonstration of knowledge of the essential knowledge and skills adopted under Section 28.002.
Added by Acts 2025, 89th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1126 (S.B. 13), Sec. 2, eff. September 1, 2025.

      Sec. 33.021.  LIBRARY STANDARDS.  (a)  In this section, "sexually explicit material" means any communication, language, or material, including a written description, illustration, photographic image, video image, or audio file, other than library material directly related to the curriculum required under Section 28.002(a), that describes, depicts, or portrays sexual conduct, as defined by Section 43.25, Penal Code, in a way that is patently offensive, as defined by Section 43.21, Penal Code.
      (b)  The Texas State Library and Archives Commission, in consultation with the State Board of Education, shall adopt voluntary standards for school library services, other than collection development, that a school district shall consider in developing, implementing, or expanding library services.
      (c)  The Texas State Library and Archives Commission, with approval by majority vote of the State Board of Education, shall adopt standards for school library collection development that a school district shall adhere to in developing or implementing the district's library collection development policies.
      (d)  The standards adopted under Subsection (c) must:
            (1)  be reviewed and updated at least once every five years; and
            (2)  include a collection development policy that:
                  (A)  prohibits the possession, acquisition, and purchase of:
                        (i)  harmful material;
                        (ii)  library material rated sexually explicit material by the selling library material vendor;
                        (iii)  library material that is pervasively vulgar or educationally unsuitable as referenced in Board of Education v. Pico, 457 U.S. 853 (1982);
                        (iv)  library material containing indecent content or profane content; or
                        (v)  library material that refers a person to an Internet website containing content prohibited under this subsection, including by use of a link or QR code, as defined by Section 443.001, Health and Safety Code;
                  (B)  recognizes that obscene content is not protected by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution;
                  (C)  is required for all library materials available for use or display, including material contained in school libraries, classroom libraries, online catalogs, library mobile applications, and any other library catalog a student may access;
                  (D)  recognizes that parents are the primary decision makers regarding a student's access to library material;
                  (E)  encourages schools to provide library catalog transparency;
                  (F)  recommends schools communicate effectively with parents regarding collection development;
                  (G)  prohibits the removal of material based solely on the:
                        (i)  ideas contained in the material; or
                        (ii)  personal background of:
                              (a)  the author of the material; or
                              (b)  characters in the material; and
                  (H)  demonstrates a commitment to compliance with the Children's Internet Protection Act (Pub. L. No. 106-554), including through the use of technology protection measures, as defined by that Act.
      (e)  A school district may adopt local policies and procedures in addition to the standards adopted under Subsection (c) that do not conflict with the standards adopted under that subsection or other requirements of this code.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 260, Sec. 1, eff. May 30, 1995.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2023, 88th Leg., R.S., Ch. 808 (H.B. 900), Sec. 2, eff. September 1, 2023.
      Acts 2025, 89th Leg., R.S., Ch. 204 (H.B. 1620), Sec. 6.004, eff. September 1, 2025.
      Acts 2025, 89th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1126 (S.B. 13), Sec. 3, eff. September 1, 2025.

      Sec. 33.022.  CONTRACT WITH COUNTY OR MUNICIPALITY.  (a)  A school district may enter into contracts with a county or municipality in which the district is located to provide joint library facilities.
      (b)  The board of trustees of the school district and the commissioners court of the county or governing body of the municipality must conduct public hearings before entering into a contract under this section.  The hearings may be held jointly.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 260, Sec. 1, eff. May 30, 1995.

      Sec. 33.023.  PARENTAL ACCESS TO LIBRARY CATALOG AND ACCESS BY THE PARENT'S CHILD TO CERTAIN LIBRARY MATERIALS.  (a)  A school district or open-enrollment charter school shall adopt procedures that provide for a parent of a child enrolled in the district or school to:
            (1)  access the catalog of available library materials at each school library in the district or school; and
            (2)  submit to the district or school a list of library materials that the parent's child may not be allowed to check out or otherwise access for use outside of the school library.
      (b)  The procedures adopted under Subsection (a)(2) must allow for a parent to submit a list of library materials through:
            (1)  an electronic or physical form; or
            (2)  the district's or school's online library catalog system.
      (c)  A school district or open-enrollment charter school may not allow a student to check out or otherwise use outside the school library a library material the student's parent has included in a list submitted under Subsection (a)(2).
      (d)  Notwithstanding Section 31.0211(c), a school district or open-enrollment charter school may use funds from the district's or school's instructional materials and technology allotment under Section 31.0211 for costs associated with complying with this section.
Added by Acts 2025, 89th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1126 (S.B. 13), Sec. 4, eff. September 1, 2025.

      Sec. 33.024.  PARENTAL ACCESS TO STUDENT LIBRARY RECORDS.  Each school district and open-enrollment charter school that uses a learning management system or an online learning portal shall, through the system or portal, provide to each parent of a child enrolled in the district or school a record of each time the parent's child checks out or otherwise uses outside the school library a library material.  The record must include, as applicable, the title, author, genre, and return date of the library material.
Added by Acts 2025, 89th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1126 (S.B. 13), Sec. 4, eff. September 1, 2025.

      Sec. 33.025.  LOCAL SCHOOL LIBRARY ADVISORY COUNCIL.  (a)  Subject to Subsection (b), the board of trustees of each school district may establish a local school library advisory council to assist the district in ensuring that local community values are reflected in each school library catalog in the district.  A school district that does not establish a local school library advisory council must ensure that the district's procedures for adding or removing library materials to or from a school library catalog comply with:
            (1)  the library standards approved under Section 33.021; and
            (2)  the meeting requirements under Subsections (g) and (h).
      (b)  The board of trustees of a school district shall establish a local school library advisory council if the parents of at least 10 percent of the students enrolled in the district or 50 or more parents of students enrolled in the district, whichever is fewer, present to the board a petition to establish a local school library advisory council.  A council established under this subsection may not be abolished until the third anniversary of the date on which the council was established.
      (c)  Except as provided by Section 33.026(f), a school district that establishes a local school library advisory council must consider the recommendations of the local school library advisory council before:
            (1)  adding library materials to a school library catalog;
            (2)  removing library materials from a school library catalog following a challenge under Section 33.027; or
            (3)  making changes to policies or guidelines related to a school library catalog.
      (d)  The local school library advisory council's duties include recommending:
            (1)  policies and procedures for the acquisition of library materials consistent with local community values;
            (2)  to the board of trustees whether library materials proposed for acquisition under Section 33.026 are appropriate for each grade level of the school or campus for which the library materials are proposed to be acquired;
            (3)  if feasible, joint use agreements or strategies for collaboration between the school district and local public libraries and community organizations;
            (4)  the removal of any library materials that the council determines to be harmful material or material containing indecent content or profane content that is inconsistent with local community values or age appropriateness;
            (5)  the policies and procedures for processing challenges received under Section 33.027; and
            (6)  the action to be taken by the district in response to a challenge received under Section 33.027.
      (e)  Any recommendation made by the local school library advisory council must adhere to the library standards approved under Section 33.021.
      (f)  The local school library advisory council must consist of at least five members, with each member appointed by the board of trustees, and with each trustee appointing an equal number of members.  A majority of the voting members of the council must be persons who are parents of students enrolled in the district and who are not employed by the district.  One of those members shall serve as chair of the council.  The board of trustees may also appoint one or more persons to serve as nonvoting members of the council from any of the following groups:
            (1)  classroom teachers employed by the district;
            (2)  librarians employed by the district;
            (3)  school counselors certified under Subchapter B, Chapter 21, employed by the district;
            (4)  school administrators employed by the district;
            (5)  the business community; and
            (6)  the clergy.
      (g)  The local school library advisory council shall meet at least two times each year and at other times as necessary to fulfill the council's duties under this subchapter.  For each meeting, the council shall:
            (1)  at least 72 hours before the meeting:
                  (A)  post notice of the date, hour, place, and subject of the meeting on a bulletin board in the central administrative office of each campus in the school district; and
                  (B)  ensure that the notice required under Paragraph (A) is posted on the district's Internet website, if the district has an Internet website;
            (2)  prepare and maintain minutes of the meeting that state the subject and content of each deliberation and each vote, order, decision, or other action taken by the council during the meeting;
            (3)  make an audio or video recording of the meeting; and
            (4)  not later than the 10th day after the date of the meeting, submit the minutes and audio or video recording of the meeting to the district.
      (h)  As soon as practicable after receipt of the minutes and audio or video recording under Subsection (g)(4), the school district shall post the minutes and audio or video recording on the district's Internet website, if the district has an Internet website.
Added by Acts 2025, 89th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1126 (S.B. 13), Sec. 4, eff. September 1, 2025.

      Sec. 33.026.  ACQUISITION OF LIBRARY MATERIALS.  (a)  The board of trustees of a school district shall adopt a policy for the acquisition of library materials, including procedures for the procurement of library materials and the receipt of donated library materials.  The policy must require the board to:
            (1)  approve all library materials that have been donated to or that are to be procured by a school library in the district, with the advice and recommendations of the district's local school library advisory council if the district established a council under Section 33.025;
            (2)  make the list of library materials not described by Subsection (f) that have been donated to or that are proposed to be procured by a school library accessible for review by the public for at least 30 days before final approval;
            (3)  approve or reject the list of library materials that have been donated to or that are proposed to be procured by a school library in an open meeting; and
            (4)  ensure compliance with the library standards approved under Section 33.021.
      (b)  Each member of the board of trustees of a school district is entitled to:
            (1)  review each list of library materials that have been donated to or that are proposed to be procured by a school library in the district; and
            (2)  propose changes to each list described by Subdivision (1) before the board votes to approve or reject the list.
      (c)  For purposes of Subsection (a)(3), the board of trustees shall approve or reject a list of library materials that have been donated to or that are proposed to be procured by a school library at the first open meeting of the board held on or after the 30th day after the date the list is made accessible for review by the public as required by Subsection (a)(2).
      (d)  If a school district established a local school library advisory council, the council shall meet to determine the council's recommendations regarding library materials that have been donated to or that are proposed to be procured by a school library before the date of the open meeting of the board of trustees described by Subsection (a)(3).  The local school library advisory council meeting may occur during the period the list is available for review by the public as required by Subsection (a)(2).
      (e)  A school district may not add a donated library material to the school library catalog or otherwise make the donated library material available for student use unless the board of trustees of the district approves the addition of that donated library material to the school library catalog for the grade levels for which the material is intended.
      (f)  This section does not apply to library materials that have been donated to or that are to be procured by a school library that:
            (1)  replace a damaged copy of a library material with the same International Standard Book Number that is currently in the school library catalog;
            (2)  are additional copies of a library material with the same International Standard Book Number that is currently in the school library catalog; or
            (3)  have the same International Standard Book Number and have been approved for the same grade levels by the board of trustees of the school district from a previous proposed list of library materials.
      (g)  The agency shall adopt and make available a model policy for the acquisition of library materials that a school district may adopt to comply with the requirements of this section.
Added by Acts 2025, 89th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1126 (S.B. 13), Sec. 4, eff. September 1, 2025.

      Sec. 33.027.  CHALLENGE OR APPEAL REGARDING LIBRARY MATERIALS; LOCAL SCHOOL LIBRARY ADVISORY COUNCIL RECOMMENDATIONS.  (a)  A parent of or person standing in parental relation to a student enrolled in a school district, a person employed by the district, or a person residing in the district may submit:
            (1)  to the district a written challenge to any library material in the catalog of a school library in the district using the form adopted under Subsection (e); or
            (2)  to the district's board of trustees an appeal of an action taken by the district in response to a written challenge received under Subdivision (1).
      (b)  Not later than the fifth day after the date on which a school district receives a written challenge under Subsection (a)(1), the district shall provide a copy of the challenge to the district's local school library advisory council if the district established a council under Section 33.025.  The council shall make a recommendation for action by the district not later than the 90th day after the date on which the council receives the copy.
      (c)  If the procedures recommended by the local school library advisory council, if applicable, and adopted by the board of trustees permit the appointment of library material review committees that consist of persons who are not members of the council to review library materials challenged under Subsection (a)(1), the council may base the council's recommendation for action to be taken by the district under Subsection (b) on the recommendation of a library material review committee if the committee consists of at least five persons appointed by the board of trustees, a majority of whom are parents of students enrolled in the school district and are not employed by the district.  Sections 33.025(g) and (h) apply to a library material review committee authorized by this subsection in the same manner as a local school library advisory council.
      (d)  The board of trustees shall take action on:
            (1)  a written challenge submitted under Subsection (a)(1) at the first open meeting of the board held after:
                  (A)  the 90th day after the date on which the school district receives a written challenge under Subsection (a)(1); or
                  (B)  if applicable, the local school library advisory council has made a recommendation under Subsection (b) regarding the challenge; or
            (2)  an appeal under Subsection (a)(2) at the first open meeting of the board held after the date the appeal is filed.
      (e)  The agency shall adopt and post on the agency's Internet website a form to be used in making a written challenge under Subsection (a)(1).  Each school district shall post the form on the district's Internet website, if the district has an Internet website.  The form shall require the person submitting the form to identify how the challenged library material violates the library standards approved under Section 33.021.
      (f)  In taking action on a written challenge submitted under Subsection (a)(1) or an appeal under Subsection (a)(2), the board of trustees of a school district shall consider:
            (1)  if applicable, the advice of the district's local school library advisory council; and
            (2)  whether the library material challenged under Subsection (a)(1) or appealed under Subsection (a)(2) is suitable for the subject and grade level for which the library material is intended, including by considering:
                  (A)  whether the library material adheres to the library standards approved under Section 33.021; and
                  (B)  reviews, if any, of the library material conducted by academic experts specializing in the subject covered by the library material or in the education of students in the subject and grade level for which the library material is intended.
      (g)  A school district that receives a challenge to a library material under Subsection (a)(1) shall prohibit students enrolled in the district from accessing the library material until the district takes action in response to the challenge.
      (h)  If a challenge to a library material submitted under Subsection (a)(1) results in the board of trustees, with the recommendation of the local school library advisory council, if applicable, removing the library material from a school library catalog, the board shall notify each teacher assigned as the classroom teacher at the grade level for which the library material was determined to be not appropriate and instruct the teacher to remove any copy of the library material from the teacher's classroom library, if applicable.
      (i)  If a challenge to a library material submitted under Subsection (a)(1) results in the board of trustees, with the recommendation of the local school library advisory council, if applicable, not removing the library material from a school library catalog, the board is not required to take any action in response to a written challenge of the library material submitted before the second anniversary of the date of the determination to not remove the library material.
Added by Acts 2025, 89th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1126 (S.B. 13), Sec. 4, eff. September 1, 2025.

SUBCHAPTER C. MISSING CHILD PREVENTION AND IDENTIFICATION PROGRAMS

      Sec. 33.051.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:
            (1)  "Child" and "minor" have the meanings assigned by Section 101.003, Family Code.
            (2)  "Missing child" means a child whose whereabouts are unknown to the legal custodian of the child and:
                  (A)  the circumstances of whose absence indicate that the child did not voluntarily leave the care and control of the custodian and that the taking of the child was not authorized by law; or
                  (B)  the child has engaged in conduct indicating a need for supervision under Section 51.03(b)(2), Family Code.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 260, Sec. 1, eff. May 30, 1995.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 935 (H.B. 2398), Sec. 16, eff. September 1, 2015.

      Sec. 33.052.  MISSING CHILD PREVENTION AND IDENTIFICATION PROGRAMS.  (a)  The board of trustees of a school district or of a private school may participate in missing child prevention and identification programs, including fingerprinting and photographing as provided by this subchapter.
      (b)  The board of trustees of a school district may delegate responsibility for implementation of the program to the district's school administration or to the district's community education services administration.
      (c)  The chief administrative officer of each private primary or secondary school may participate in the programs and may contract with the regional education service center in which the school is located for operation of all or any part of the program through a shared services arrangement.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 260, Sec. 1, eff. May 30, 1995.

      Sec. 33.053.  FINGERPRINTS OF CHILDREN.  (a)  A missing child prevention and identification program may include a procedure for taking the fingerprints of each student registered in the school whose parent or legal custodian has consented in writing to the fingerprinting.  Fingerprints obtained under this section may be used only for the identification and location of a missing child.
      (b)  The board of trustees of a school district or the chief administrative officer of a private school may establish a reasonable fee to cover the costs of fingerprinting not provided by volunteer assistance.  The fee may not exceed $3 for each child fingerprinted.  If the school charges a fee, the school may waive all or a portion of the costs of fingerprinting for educationally disadvantaged children.
      (c)  A representative of a law enforcement agency of the county or the municipality in which the school district is located or of the Department of Public Safety, or a person trained in fingerprinting technique by a law enforcement agency or the Department of Public Safety, shall make one complete set of fingerprints on a fingerprint card for each child participating in the program.  If the school requests, the Department of Public Safety may provide fingerprint training to persons designated by the school.
      (d)  A fingerprint card shall include a description of the child, including the name, address, date and place of birth, color of eyes and hair, weight, and sex of the child.
      (e)  Except as provided by Section 33.054(b), the fingerprint card and other materials developed under this subchapter shall be made part of the school's permanent student records.
      (f)  A state agency, law enforcement agency, or other person may not retain a copy of a child's fingerprints taken under this program.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 260, Sec. 1, eff. May 30, 1995.

      Sec. 33.0531.  CHILD IDENTIFICATION PROGRAM.  (a)  The agency shall provide to all school districts and open-enrollment charter schools inkless, in-home fingerprint and DNA identification kits to be distributed through the district or school on request to the parent or legal custodian of any kindergarten, elementary, or middle school student.
      (b)  A parent or legal custodian who receives a fingerprint and DNA identification kit may submit the kit to federal, state, tribal, or local law enforcement to help locate and return a missing or trafficked child.
Added by Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 891 (S.B. 2158), Sec. 1, eff. September 1, 2021.

      Sec. 33.054.  PHOTOGRAPHS OF CHILDREN.  (a)  A participating school shall retain a current photograph of each child registered in the school whose parent or legal custodian has consented in writing.  Photographs retained under this section may be used only for the identification and location of a missing child.
      (b)  The photograph shall be retained by the participating school until the photograph is replaced by a subsequently made photograph under this section or until the expiration of three years, whichever is earlier.
      (c)  On the request of a parent or legal custodian of a missing child, or of a peace officer who is engaged in the investigation of a missing child, a participating school may give to the parent, legal custodian, or peace officer a copy of that child's photograph held by the school under this section.  Except as provided by this subsection, a photograph held under this section may not be given to any person.
      (d)  A participating school may charge a fee for making and keeping records of photographs under this section.  If the school charges a fee, the school may waive this fee for educationally disadvantaged children.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 260, Sec. 1, eff. May 30, 1995.

      Sec. 33.055.  FINGERPRINTS AND PHOTOGRAPHS NOT USED AS EVIDENCE.  (a)  A child's fingerprint card made under Section 33.053 or a photograph of a child made or kept under Section 33.054 may not be used as evidence in any criminal proceeding in which the child is a defendant or in any case under Title 3, Family Code, in which the child is alleged to have engaged in delinquent conduct or in conduct indicating a need for supervision.
      (b)  This subchapter does not apply to the use by a law enforcement agency for an official purpose of a photograph published in a school annual.
      (c)  This subchapter does not prevent the use of a videotape or photograph taken to monitor the activity of students for disciplinary reasons or in connection with a criminal prosecution or an action under Title 3, Family Code.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 260, Sec. 1, eff. May 30, 1995.

      Sec. 33.056.  LIABILITY FOR NONPERFORMANCE.  A person is not liable in any suit for damages for negligent performance or nonperformance of any requirement of this subchapter.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 260, Sec. 1, eff. May 30, 1995.

      Sec. 33.057.  DESTRUCTION OF FINGERPRINTS AND PHOTOGRAPHS.  The agency shall adopt rules relating to the destruction of fingerprints and photographs made or kept under Section 33.053 or 33.054.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 260, Sec. 1, eff. May 30, 1995.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 891 (S.B. 2158), Sec. 2, eff. September 1, 2021.

SUBCHAPTER D. EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES

      Sec. 33.081.  EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES.  (a)  The State Board of Education by rule shall limit participation in and practice for extracurricular activities during the school day and the school week.  The rules must, to the extent possible, preserve the school day for academic activities without interruption for extracurricular activities.  In scheduling those activities and practices, a school district must comply with the rules of the board.
      (b)  A student enrolled in a school district in this state or who participates in an extracurricular activity or a University Interscholastic League competition is subject to school district policy and University Interscholastic League rules regarding participation only when the student is under the direct supervision of an employee of the school or district in which the student is enrolled or at any other time specified by resolution of the board of trustees of the district.
      (c)  A student who is enrolled in a school district in this state or who participates in a University Interscholastic League competition shall be suspended from participation in any extracurricular activity sponsored or sanctioned by the school district or the University Interscholastic League after a grade evaluation period in which the student received a grade lower than the equivalent of 70 on a scale of 100 in any academic class other than a course described by Subsection (d-1).  A suspension continues for at least three school weeks and is not removed during the school year until the conditions of Subsection (d) are met.  A suspension does not last beyond the end of a school year.  For purposes of this subsection, "grade evaluation period" means:
            (1)  the six-week grade reporting period; or
            (2)  the first six weeks of a semester and each grade reporting period thereafter, in the case of a district with a grade reporting period longer than six weeks.
      (d)  Until the suspension is removed under this subsection or the school year ends, a school district shall review the grades of a student suspended under Subsection (c) at the end of each three-week period following the date on which the suspension began.  At the time of a review, the suspension is removed if the student's grade in each class, other than a course described by Subsection (d-1), is equal to or greater than the equivalent of 70 on a scale of 100.  The principal and each of the student's teachers shall make the determination concerning the student's grades.
      (d-1)  Subsections (c) and (d) do not apply to an advanced placement or international baccalaureate course, or to an honors or dual credit course in the subject areas of English language arts, mathematics, science, social studies, economics, or a language other than English.  The agency shall review on a biennial basis courses described by this subsection to determine if other courses should be excluded from the requirement that a student be suspended from participation in an extracurricular activity under Subsection (c).  Not later than January 1 of each odd-numbered year, the agency shall report the findings under this subsection to the legislature.
      (e)  Suspension of a student with a disability that significantly interferes with the student's ability to meet regular academic standards must be based on the student's failure to meet the requirements of the student's individualized education program.  The determination of whether a disability significantly interferes with a student's ability to meet regular academic standards must be made by the student's admission, review, and dismissal committee.  For purposes of this subsection, "student with a disability" means a student who is eligible for a district's special education program under Section 29.003(b).
      (e-1)  A student who is enrolled in a school district in this state or who participates in a University Interscholastic League competition shall be prohibited from participation in any future extracurricular activity sponsored or sanctioned by the school district or the University Interscholastic League if the state executive committee of the league determines that the student intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly causes bodily injury to a person serving as referee, judge, or other official of an extracurricular activity in retaliation for or as a result of the person's actions taken in performing the duties of a referee, judge, or other official of the extracurricular activity.
      (e-2)  A student prohibited from participation in an extracurricular activity under Subsection (e-1) may submit to the University Interscholastic League a request that the student be permitted to participate in future extracurricular activities sponsored or sanctioned by the University Interscholastic League if:
            (1)  the request is submitted at least:
                  (A)  one year after the date the student engaged in the conduct that resulted in the prohibition under Subsection (e-1) if the student was enrolled in eighth grade or below at the time of the conduct; or
                  (B)  two years after the date the student engaged in the conduct that resulted in the prohibition under Subsection (e-1) if the student was enrolled in ninth grade or above at the time of the conduct;
            (2)  the student:
                  (A)  completed a course in anger management since engaging in the conduct that resulted in the prohibition under Subsection (e-1);
                  (B)  completed any other course, activity, or action required by the school district in which the student is enrolled as a result of the conduct that resulted in the prohibition under Subsection (e-1); and
                  (C)  demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the school district and the University Interscholastic League, that the student has been rehabilitated and is unlikely to again engage in the conduct described by Subsection (e-1); and
            (3)  a previous request submitted by the student under this section has not been denied during the school year in which the request is submitted.
      (e-3)  When determining whether to grant a request under Subsection (e-2), the University Interscholastic League:
            (1)  shall take into account the severity of the conduct that resulted in the prohibition under Subsection (e-1); and
            (2)  may set conditions for the student's future participation in extracurricular activities.
      (e-4)  The University Interscholastic League may prohibit a student from participating in any future extracurricular activity sponsored or sanctioned by the University Interscholastic League if the student violates a condition set by the University Interscholastic League under Subsection (e-3)(2).
      (f)  Except for a student prohibited from participation under Subsection (e-1), a student suspended under this section may practice or rehearse with other students for an extracurricular activity but may not participate in a competition or other public performance.
      (f-1)  A school district shall prohibit a spectator of an extracurricular athletic activity or competition, including a parent or guardian of a student participant, from attending any future extracurricular athletic activity or competition sponsored or sanctioned by the school district or the University Interscholastic League if the spectator engages in conduct that intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly causes bodily injury to a person serving as referee, judge, or other official of an extracurricular athletic activity or competition in retaliation for or as a result of the person's actions taken in performing the duties of a referee, judge, or other official of the extracurricular athletic activity or competition.
      (f-2)  A school district may establish an appeals process by which:
            (1)  a person may appeal to the district a prohibition imposed under Subsection (f-1); and
            (2)  the district may determine the facts associated with the conduct for which the school district imposed a prohibition under Subsection (f-1).
      (f-3)  A prohibition imposed under Subsection (f-1) must be for not less than one year after the date on which the prohibition is imposed but may not exceed five years from the date on which the prohibition is imposed.
      (g)  An appeal to the commissioner is not a contested case under Chapter 2001, Government Code, if the issues presented relate to a person's eligibility to participate in or attend an extracurricular activity, including issues related to a student's grades, the school district's grading policy as applied to a student's eligibility, a student's eligibility based on conduct described by Subsection (e-1), or a spectator's eligibility to attend an extracurricular athletic activity or competition under Subsection (f-1).  The commissioner may delegate the matter for decision to a person the commissioner designates.  The decision of the commissioner or the commissioner's designee in a matter governed by this subsection may not be appealed except on the grounds that the decision is arbitrary or capricious.  Evidence may not be introduced on appeal other than the record of the evidence before the commissioner.
      (h)  A request made under Subsection (e-2) is not a contested case subject to Chapter 2001, Government Code.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 260, Sec. 1, eff. May 30, 1995.  Amended by Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 1482, Sec. 2, eff. June 19, 1999.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1327 (S.B. 1517), Sec. 1, eff. June 15, 2007.
      Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 824 (H.B. 2721), Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2021.
      Acts 2023, 88th Leg., R.S., Ch. 833 (H.B. 2484), Sec. 1, eff. June 13, 2023.

      Sec. 33.0811.  SCHOOL DISTRICT POLICY ON ABSENCES TO PARTICIPATE IN EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES.  (a)  Notwithstanding Section 33.081(a), the board of trustees of a school district may adopt a policy establishing the number of times a student who is otherwise eligible to participate in an extracurricular activity under Section 33.081 may be absent from class to participate in an extracurricular activity sponsored or sanctioned by the district or the University Interscholastic League or by an organization sanctioned by resolution of the board of trustees of the district.
      (b)  A policy adopted by the board of trustees of a district under this section:
            (1)  prevails over a conflicting policy adopted under Section 33.081(a);  and
            (2)  must permit a student to be absent from class at least 10 times during the school year.
Added by Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 1482, Sec. 3, eff. June 19, 1999.

      Sec. 33.0815.  CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS FOR STUDENT CLUBS.  (a)  Subject to Subsection (b), a school district or open-enrollment charter school may authorize or sponsor a student club.
      (b)  A school district or open-enrollment charter school may not authorize or sponsor a student club based on sexual orientation or gender identity.
      (c)  A school district or open-enrollment charter school must require the written consent of the parent of or person standing in parental relation to a student enrolled in the district or school before the student may participate in a student club authorized or sponsored under Subsection (a) at the district or school.
Added by Acts 2025, 89th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1125 (S.B. 12), Sec. 27, eff. September 1, 2025.

      Sec. 33.082.  EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES;  USE OF DISCRIMINATORY ATHLETIC CLUB.  (a)  An extracurricular activity sponsored or sanctioned by a school district, including an athletic event or an athletic team practice, may not take place at an athletic club located in the United States that denies any person full and equal enjoyment of equipment or facilities provided by the athletic club because of the race, color, religion, creed, national origin, or sex of the person.
      (b)  In this section, "athletic club" means an entity that provides sports or exercise equipment or facilities to its customers or members or to the guests of its customers or members.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 260, Sec. 1, eff. May 30, 1995.

      Sec. 33.083.  INTERSCHOLASTIC LEAGUES.  (a)  The rules and procedures of an organization sanctioning or conducting interscholastic competition, including rules providing penalties for rules violations by school district personnel, must be consistent with State Board of Education rules.
      (b)  The University Interscholastic League is a part of The University of Texas at Austin and must submit its rules and procedures to the commissioner for approval or disapproval.  The funds belonging to the University Interscholastic League shall be deposited with The University of Texas at Austin for the benefit of the league and shall be subject to audits by The University of Texas at Austin, The University of Texas System, and the state auditor.  Copies of annual audits shall be furnished, on request, to members of the legislature.
      (c)  The State Board of Education may seek an injunction to enforce this section.
      (d)  The University Interscholastic League shall file annually with the governor and the presiding officer of each house of the legislature a complete and detailed written report accounting for all funds received and disbursed by the University Interscholastic League during the preceding fiscal year.  The form of the annual report and the reporting time are as provided by the General Appropriations Act.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 260, Sec. 1, eff. May 30, 1995.  Amended by Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 1482, Sec. 4, eff. June 19, 1999.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1279 (H.B. 1675), Sec. 1.04, eff. June 14, 2013.

      Sec. 33.0831.  UNIVERSITY INTERSCHOLASTIC LEAGUE RULES: FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT.  (a)  The legislative council of the University Interscholastic League may not take final action on a new or amended rule that would result in additional costs for a member school unless a fiscal impact statement regarding the rule has been completed in accordance with this section.
      (b)  For purposes of Subsection (a), final action by the legislative council means:
            (1)  submitting a rule to school superintendents, if the submission is required under the legislative council's procedures; or
            (2)  submitting a rule approved by the council to the commissioner for the commissioner's approval under Section 33.083(b), if the rule does not require submission to school superintendents under the legislative council's procedures.
      (c)  A fiscal impact statement regarding a rule must include:
            (1)  a projection of the costs to member schools of complying with the rule during the five-year period following the effective date of the rule; and
            (2)  an explanation of the methodology used to analyze the fiscal impact of the rule and determine the costs projection required by Subdivision (1).
      (d)  If a fiscal impact statement is prepared for a rule, a copy of the statement must be attached to the rule when it is submitted for approval to school superintendents, if applicable, and when it is submitted to the commissioner for approval.
Added by Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 966 (H.B. 1286), Sec. 1, eff. September 1, 2011.

      Sec. 33.0832.  EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FOR CERTAIN STUDENTS TO PARTICIPATE IN UNIVERSITY INTERSCHOLASTIC LEAGUE ACTIVITIES.  (a)  In this section:
            (1)  "League" means the University Interscholastic League.
            (2)  "Non-enrolled student" means a student who receives instruction as described by Section 29.916(a)(1) from a nonpublic school.
      (b)  Nothing in this section may be construed to affect the holding in Texas Educ. Agency v. Leeper, 893 S.W.2d 432 (Tex. 1994), classifying home schools as private schools.  The legislature finds that a home school is a private school for purposes of this section.
      (c)  Except as provided by Subsections (c-2) and (i), a public school that participates in an activity sponsored by the league shall provide a non-enrolled student, who otherwise meets league eligibility standards to represent that school in a league activity, with the opportunity to participate in the activity on behalf of the school in the same manner that the school provides the opportunity to participate to students enrolled in the school.
      (c-1)  When assigning league classification to a public school  based on student enrollment, the league must use the same student enrollment calculation formula for a school that allows a non-enrolled student to participate in a league activity as provided by Subsection (c) as the formula used to determine the student enrollment of a school that does not allow a non-enrolled student to participate in the league activity.
      (c-2)  Not later than the date specified under league rule, the board of trustees of a school district or the governing body of an open-enrollment charter school may adopt a policy declining to grant non-enrolled students the opportunity to participate in league activities.
      (d)  A non-enrolled student who seeks to participate or participates in a league activity on behalf of a school is subject to the following relevant policies that apply to students enrolled in the school:
            (1)  registration for league activities;
            (2)  age eligibility;
            (3)  fees;
            (4)  insurance;
            (5)  transportation;
            (6)  physical condition;
            (7)  qualifications;
            (8)  responsibilities;
            (9)  event schedules;
            (10)  standards of behavior; and
            (11)  performance.
      (e)  Except as provided by Subsection (e-1), a non-enrolled student may only participate in a league activity for the school in the school district that the student would be eligible to attend based on the student's residential address.  A non-enrolled student who seeks to participate in a league activity on behalf of a school shall be required to establish minimum proof of residency acceptable to the district in the same manner as an applicant to attend a school in the district under Section 25.001.
      (e-1)  If the school that a non-enrolled student would be eligible to attend under Subsection (e) is subject to a policy adopted under Subsection (c-2), the student may participate in a league activity for the closest school, based on geographic proximity to the student's residential address, that is not subject to a policy adopted under Subsection (c-2).
      (f)  The parent or person standing in parental relation to a non-enrolled student is responsible for oversight of academic standards relating to the student's participation in a league activity.  As a condition of eligibility to participate in a league activity during the first six weeks of a school year, a non-enrolled student must demonstrate grade-level academic proficiency on any nationally recognized, norm-referenced assessment instrument, such as the Iowa Test of Basic Skills, Stanford Achievement Test, California Achievement Test, or Comprehensive Test of Basic Skills.  A non-enrolled student demonstrates the required academic proficiency by achieving a composite, core, or survey score that is within the average or higher than average range of scores, as established by the applicable testing service.  For purposes of this subsection, a school district shall accept assessment results administered or reported by a third party.
      (g)  A non-enrolled student's demonstration of academic proficiency under Subsection (f) is sufficient for purposes of that subsection for the school year in which the student achieves the required score and the subsequent school year.
      (h)  After the first six weeks of a school year, the parent or person standing in parental relation to a non-enrolled student participating in a league activity on behalf of a public school must periodically, in accordance with the school's grading calendar, provide written verification to the school indicating that the student is receiving a passing grade in each course or subject being taught.
      (i)  A non-enrolled student is not authorized by this section to participate in a league activity during the remainder of any school year during which the student was previously enrolled in a public school.
      (j)  The league may not prohibit a non-enrolled student from participating in league activities in the manner authorized by this section.
      (k)  With respect to a non-enrolled student's education program, nothing in this section shall be construed to permit an agency of this state, a public school district, or any other governmental body to exercise control, regulatory authority, or supervision over a non-enrolled student or a parent or person standing in parental relation to a non-enrolled student beyond the control, regulatory authority, or supervision required to participate in a league activity.
      (l)  Subject only to eligibility requirements under this section for a non-enrolled student to participate in a league activity:
            (1)  the curriculum or assessment requirements, performance standards, practices, or creed of the education program provided to a non-enrolled student may not be required to be changed in order for the non-enrolled student to participate in a league activity; and
            (2)  for a non-enrolled student participating in an education program on January 1, 2021, the education program provided to that student may not be required to comply with any state law or agency rule relating to that education program unless the law or rule was in effect on January 1, 2021.
      (m)  Notwithstanding any other law, a non-enrolled student who participates in a league activity under this section is subject to the immunization requirements and exceptions of Section 38.001 in the same manner as a public school student.
Added by Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 996 (H.B. 547), Sec. 1, eff. September 1, 2021.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2023, 88th Leg., R.S., Ch. 483 (H.B. 699), Sec. 1, eff. June 10, 2023.
      Acts 2025, 89th Leg., R.S., Ch. 770 (S.B. 401), Sec. 1, eff. June 20, 2025.

      Sec. 33.0833.  PARTICIPATION IN UNIVERSITY INTERSCHOLASTIC LEAGUE ACTIVITIES BY STUDENTS RECEIVING OUTPATIENT MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES.  (a)  This section applies to a student who:
            (1)  receives outpatient mental health services from a mental health facility, as defined by Section 571.003, Health and Safety Code; and
            (2)  is enrolled in a school district or open-enrollment charter school or otherwise receives public education services from a district or school.
      (b)  The University Interscholastic League shall ensure that league rules do not exclude from eligibility for participation in a league activity a student to whom this section applies based solely on the criteria described in Subsection (a)(1).
      (c)  A school district or open-enrollment charter school may not adopt or enforce policies that restrict participation in University Interscholastic League activities by a student to whom this section applies based solely on:
            (1)  the criteria described in Subsection (a)(1); or
            (2)  the student's absence during instructional time while receiving outpatient mental health services as described by Subsection (a)(1).
      (d)  This section does not exempt a student to whom this section applies from any eligibility requirement for participation in University Interscholastic League activities other than an eligibility requirement based solely on the criteria described in Subsection (a)(1).
Added by Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 235 (H.B. 1080), Sec. 1, eff. June 4, 2021.
Redesignated from Education Code, Section 33.0832 by Acts 2023, 88th Leg., R.S., Ch. 768 (H.B. 4595), Sec. 24.001(11), eff. September 1, 2023.

      Sec. 33.0834.  INTERSCHOLASTIC ATHLETIC COMPETITION BASED ON BIOLOGICAL SEX.  (a)  Except as provided by Subsection (b), an interscholastic athletic team sponsored or authorized by a school district or open-enrollment charter school may not allow a student to compete in an interscholastic athletic competition sponsored or authorized by the district or school that is designated for the biological sex opposite to the student's biological sex as correctly stated on:
            (1)  the student's official birth certificate, as described by Subsection (c); or
            (2)  if the student's official birth certificate described by Subdivision (1) is unobtainable, another government record.
      (b)  An interscholastic athletic team described by Subsection (a) may allow a female student to compete in an interscholastic athletic competition that is designated for male students if a corresponding interscholastic athletic competition designated for female students is not offered or available.
      (c)  For purposes of this section, a statement of a student's biological sex on the student's official birth certificate is considered to have correctly stated the student's biological sex only if the statement was:
            (1)  entered at or near the time of the student's birth; or
            (2)  modified to correct any type of scrivener or clerical error in the student's biological sex.
      (d)  The University Interscholastic League shall adopt rules to implement this section, provided that the rules must be approved by the commissioner in accordance with Section 33.083(b).  The rules must ensure compliance with state and federal law regarding the confidentiality of student medical information, including Chapter 181, Health and Safety Code, and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. Section 1320d et seq.).
Added by Acts 2021, 87th Leg., 3rd C.S., Ch. 2 (H.B. 25), Sec. 3, eff. January 18, 2022.

      Sec. 33.084.  INTERSCHOLASTIC LEAGUE ADVISORY COUNCIL.  (a)  The interscholastic league advisory council is composed of:
            (1)  two members of the State Board of Education appointed by the chair of the board;
            (2)  a member of the house of representatives appointed by the speaker of the house;
            (3)  a member of the senate appointed by the lieutenant governor;
            (4)  two members of the legislative council of the University Interscholastic League appointed by the chairman of the council;
            (5)  two public school board members appointed by the commissioner;  and
            (6)  three members of the public appointed by the commissioner.
      (b)  A member of the advisory council serves at the will of the member's appointing authority.
      (c)  In appointing public members to the advisory council, the commissioner shall give special consideration to students, parents of students, and teachers.
      (d)  The advisory council shall select a chair from among its members and shall meet at the call of the chair.
      (e)  The advisory council shall review the rules of the University Interscholastic League and shall make recommendations relating to the rules to the governor, the legislature, the legislative council of the University Interscholastic League, and the State Board of Education.
      (f)  A member of the advisory council may not receive compensation but is entitled to reimbursement from the University Interscholastic League for transportation expenses and the per diem allowance for state employees in accordance with the General Appropriations Act.
      (g)  The advisory council shall study:
            (1)  University Interscholastic League policy with respect to the eligibility of students to participate in programs;
            (2)  geographic distribution of University Interscholastic League resources and programs;  and
            (3)  gender equity.
      (h)  An action of the University Interscholastic League relating to the provision of additional programs of school districts may not be taken pending submission of a final report by the advisory council.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 260, Sec. 1, eff. May 30, 1995.

      Sec. 33.085.  AUTHORITY OF UNIVERSITY INTERSCHOLASTIC LEAGUE REGARDING ACTIVITIES INVOLVING SPORTS OFFICIALS.  (a)  In this section:
            (1)  "League" means the University Interscholastic League.
            (2)  "Sports official" means a person who officiates, judges, or in any manner enforces contest rules in any official capacity with respect to and during the course of an interscholastic athletic team competition and who is a member of a league-recognized local chapter or association of sports officials.  The term includes a referee, umpire, linesman,  judge, or any other person similarly involved in supervising competitive play.  The term does not include a league board member or a league official who is acting in an official capacity to supervise, administer, or enforce the league constitution or league contest rules.
      (b)  The league may require a sports official, as a condition of eligibility to officiate a contest sponsored by the league, to:
            (1)  be registered with the league and comply with the registration requirements of Subsections (c) and (c-1);
            (2)  have completed initial and continuing education programs regarding league rules;
            (3)  be a member in good standing of a local chapter or association of sports officials recognized by the league for that purpose; and
            (4)  agree to abide by league rules, including fee schedules and travel reimbursement guidelines for payment by school districts or open-enrollment charter schools to a sports official.
      (c)  In registering with the league, a sports official must be required to provide directory information required by the league and undergo an initial criminal background check.
      (c-1)  To maintain registration with the league, a sports official must:
            (1)  maintain compliance with conditions of eligibility required by the league under Subsection (b); and
            (2)  undergo a subsequent criminal background check once every three years following the date of the initial criminal background check under Subsection (c).
      (d)  The league may not charge a sports official who completes a program under Subsection (b)(2) a fee for more than one program described by Subsection (b)(2).
      (e)  The league may charge and collect a registration fee only to defray the cost of registering sports officials and shall post the amount of the fee on the league's Internet website and make the information available at other places the league determines appropriate.  The amount of the fee may not exceed the amount reasonably determined by the league to be necessary to cover the cost of administering registration.
      (f)  The league may revoke or suspend the league registration of a sports official determined by the league to have violated the provisions of the league constitution or contest rules governing sports officials or other league policy applicable to sports officials. Before the league may take action to revoke or suspend a sports official's registration, the league shall notify and consult with the local chapter or association of sports officials of which the sports official is a member.  The local chapter or association may, on or before the 15th day after the date notice is received from the league, take action to adjudicate the alleged violation.  If after the 15th day after the date notice is received from the league the local chapter or association has failed to take action against the sports official or takes action that the league finds to be insufficient, the league may take action against the sports official.  The league shall adopt rules to provide a sports official with the opportunity for an appeals process before the league revokes or suspends the sports official's registration. In adopting rules under this subsection, the league shall make a determination of the actions and subsequent sanctions that would be considered sufficient under this subsection.
      (g)  The league may not sponsor or organize or attempt to sponsor or organize any association of sports officials in which the majority of the membership is composed of sports officials who officiate team sports.
      (h)  The league may set rates or fee schedules payable by a school district or open-enrollment charter school to a sports official.
      (i)  Before the league may take any action that amends rules related to the activities of sports officials, other than an action against an individual sports official under Subsection (f), the league must submit the proposed action for public review and comment, including:
            (1)  notifying registered sports officials of the proposed action by e-mail not later than the 30th day before the date set for action on the proposal; and
            (2)  posting the proposal on the league's Internet website for at least 30 consecutive days before the date set for action on the proposal.
Added by Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 952 (H.B. 1775), Sec. 1, eff. June 14, 2013.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 335 (H.B. 1075), Sec. 1, eff. September 1, 2017.

      Sec. 33.086.  CERTIFICATION IN CARDIOPULMONARY RESUSCITATION AND FIRST AID.  (a)  A school district employee who serves as the head director of a school marching band or as the head coach or chief sponsor for an extracurricular athletic activity, including cheerleading, sponsored or sanctioned by a school district or the University Interscholastic League must maintain and submit to the district proof of current certification in first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation issued by the American Red Cross, the American Heart Association, or another organization that provides equivalent training and certification.
      (b)  Each school district shall adopt, in accordance with the policy adopted under Section 21.4515, procedures necessary for administering this section, including procedures for the time and manner in which proof of current certification must be submitted.
Added by Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 396, Sec. 2.14(a), eff. Sept. 1, 1999.  Amended by Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 881, Sec. 1, eff. June 20, 2003.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1045 (S.B. 1267), Sec. 14, eff. June 18, 2021.

      Sec. 33.087.  ELIGIBILITY OF STUDENTS PARTICIPATING IN JOINT CREDIT OR CONCURRENT ENROLLMENT PROGRAMS.  A student otherwise eligible to participate in an extracurricular activity or a University Interscholastic League competition is not ineligible because the student is enrolled in a course offered for joint high school and college credit, or in a course offered under a concurrent enrollment program, regardless of the location at which the course is provided.
Added by Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 199 (H.B. 208), Sec. 1, eff. May 24, 2007.

      Sec. 33.091.  PREVENTION OF ILLEGAL STEROID USE; RANDOM TESTING.  (a)  In this section:
            (1)  "League" means the University Interscholastic League.
            (2)  "Parent" includes a guardian or other person standing in parental relation.
            (3)  "Steroid" means an anabolic steroid as described by Section 481.104, Health and Safety Code.
      (b)  The league shall adopt rules prohibiting a student from participating in an athletic competition sponsored or sanctioned by the league unless:
            (1)  the student agrees not to use steroids and, if the student is enrolled in high school, the student submits to random testing for the presence of illegal steroids in the student's body, in accordance with the program established under Subsection (d); and
            (2)  the league obtains from the student's parent a statement signed by the parent and acknowledging that:
                  (A)  the parent's child, if enrolled in high school, may be subject to random steroid testing;
                  (B)  state law prohibits possessing, dispensing, delivering, or administering a steroid in a manner not allowed by state law;
                  (C)  state law provides that bodybuilding, muscle enhancement, or the increase of muscle bulk or strength through the use of a steroid by a person who is in good health is not a valid medical purpose;
                  (D)  only a licensed practitioner with prescriptive authority may prescribe a steroid for a person; and
                  (E)  a violation of state law concerning steroids is a criminal offense punishable by confinement in jail or imprisonment in the Texas Department of Criminal Justice.
      (c)  The league shall:
            (1)  develop an educational program for students engaged in extracurricular athletic activities sponsored or sanctioned by the league, parents of those students, and coaches of those activities regarding the health effects of steroid use; and
            (2)  make the program available to school districts.
      (c-1)  A school district shall require that each district employee who serves as an athletic coach at or above the seventh grade level for an extracurricular athletic activity sponsored or sanctioned by the league complete:
            (1)  the educational program developed by the league under Subsection (c); or
            (2)  a comparable program developed by the district or a private entity with relevant expertise.
      (d)  The league shall adopt rules for the annual administration of a steroid testing program under which high school students participating in an athletic competition sponsored or sanctioned by the league are tested at multiple times throughout the year for the presence of steroids in the students' bodies.  The testing program must:
            (1)  require the random testing of a statistically significant number of high school students in this state who participate in athletic competitions sponsored or sanctioned by the league;
            (2)  provide for the selection of specific students described by Subdivision (1) for testing through a process that randomly selects students from a single pool consisting of all students who participate in any activity for which the league sponsors or sanctions athletic competitions;
            (3)  be administered at approximately 30 percent of the high schools in this state that participate in athletic competitions sponsored or sanctioned by the league;
            (4)  provide for a process for confirming any initial positive test result through a subsequent test conducted as soon as practicable after the initial test, using a sample that was obtained at the same time as the sample used for the initial test;
            (5)  require the testing to be performed only by an anabolic steroid testing laboratory with a current certification from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, the World Anti-Doping Agency, or another appropriate national or international certifying organization; and
            (6)  provide for a period of ineligibility from participation in an athletic competition sponsored or sanctioned by the league for any student with a confirmed positive test result or any student who refuses to submit to random testing.
      (e)  Results of a steroid test conducted under Subsection (d) are confidential and, unless required by court order, may be disclosed only to the student and the student's parent and the activity directors, principal, and assistant principals of the school attended by the student.
      (f)  From funds already appropriated, the agency shall pay the costs of the steroid testing program established under Subsection (d).
      (g)  The league may increase the membership fees required of school districts that participate in athletic competitions sponsored or sanctioned by the league in an amount necessary to offset the cost of league activities under this section.
      (h)  Subsection (b)(1) does not apply to the use by a student of a steroid that is dispensed, prescribed, delivered, and administered by a medical practitioner for a valid medical purpose and in the course of professional practice, and a student is not subject to a period of ineligibility under Subsection (d)(6) on the basis of that steroid use.
Added by Acts 2005, 79th Leg., Ch. 1177 (H.B. 3563), Sec. 1, eff. June 18, 2005.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1292 (S.B. 8), Sec. 1, eff. June 15, 2007.
      Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1292 (S.B. 8), Sec. 2, eff. June 15, 2007.

      Sec. 33.092.  STUDENT ELECTION CLERKS AND EARLY VOTING CLERKS.  A student who is appointed as a student election clerk under Section 32.0511, Election Code, or as a student early voting clerk under Section 83.012, Election Code, may apply the time served as a student election clerk or student early voting clerk toward:
            (1)  a requirement for a school project at the discretion of the teacher who assigned the project; or
            (2)  a service requirement for participation in an advanced academic course program at the discretion of the program sponsor or a school-sponsored extracurricular activity at the discretion of the school sponsor.
Added by Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 517 (S.B. 1134), Sec. 4, eff. September 1, 2009.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 542 (S.B. 553), Sec. 2, eff. June 14, 2013.

      Sec. 33.093.  RECOGNITION OF PARTICIPATION IN SPECIAL OLYMPICS.  If a school district allows high school students to earn a letter for academic, athletic, or extracurricular achievements, the district must allow high school students in the district to earn a letter on the basis of a student's participation in a Special Olympics event. 
Added by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 261 (H.B. 1645), Sec. 1, eff. May 29, 2017.

      Sec. 33.094.  FOOTBALL HELMET SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.  (a)  A school district may not use a football helmet that is 16 years old or older in the district's football program.
      (b)  A school district shall ensure that each football helmet used in the district's football program that is 10 years old or older is reconditioned at least once every two years.
      (c)  A school district shall maintain and make available to parents of students enrolled in the district documentation indicating the age of each football helmet used in the district's football program and the dates on which each helmet is reconditioned.
      (d)  The University Interscholastic League may adopt rules necessary to implement this section, provided that the rules must be approved by the commissioner in accordance with Section 33.083(b).
Added by Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 239 (H.B. 675), Sec. 1, eff. September 1, 2011.

      Sec. 33.096.  CARDIAC ASSESSMENTS OF HIGH SCHOOL PARTICIPANTS IN EXTRACURRICULAR ATHLETIC ACTIVITIES.  (a)  A school district must provide a district student, who is required under University Interscholastic League rule or policy to receive a physical examination before being allowed to participate in an athletic activity sponsored or sanctioned by the University Interscholastic League, the following:
            (1)  information about sudden cardiac arrest and electrocardiogram testing; and
            (2)  notification of the option of the student to request the administration of an electrocardiogram, in addition to the physical examination.
      (b)  A student may request an electrocardiogram from any health care professional, including a health care professional provided through the student's patient-centered medical home, as defined by Section 540.0712, Government Code, a health care professional provided through a school district program, or another health care professional chosen by the parent or person standing in parental relation to the student, provided that the health care professional is:
            (1)  appropriately licensed in this state; and
            (2)  authorized to administer and interpret electrocardiograms under the health care professional's scope of practice, as established by the health care professional's Texas licensing act.
      (c)  The University Interscholastic League shall adopt rules as necessary to administer this section.
      (d)  The rules adopted under Subsection (c) must include:
            (1)  criteria under which a school district may request an exemption from the requirements of Subsection (a);
            (2)  variances that allow for a delay of the implementation of the requirement to notify students of the option to request an electrocardiogram under this section;
            (3)  procedures to ensure students receiving the required annual physical examination are notified of the option to request an electrocardiogram; and
            (4)  provisions to ensure that the requirements under this section are minimum standards that provide a school district with the option to implement a program that exceeds the standards required by this section.
      (e)  This section does not create a cause of action or liability or a standard of care, obligation, or duty that provides a basis for a cause of action or liability against a health care professional described by Subsection (b), the University Interscholastic League, a school district, or a district officer or employee for:
            (1)  the injury or death of a student participating in or practicing for an athletic activity sponsored or sanctioned by the University Interscholastic League based on or in connection with the administration or interpretation of or reliance on an electrocardiogram; or
            (2)  the content or distribution of the information required under Subsection (a) or the failure to distribute the required information under this section.
Added by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1023 (H.B. 76), Sec. 1, eff. September 1, 2019.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2023, 88th Leg., R.S., Ch. 769 (H.B. 4611), Sec. 2.03, eff. April 1, 2025.

      Sec. 33.097.  INCLUSIVE SPORTS PROGRAM FOR STUDENTS WITH INTELLECTUAL DISABILITIES.  (a)  The University Interscholastic League shall ensure students with intellectual disabilities have an opportunity to participate in team athletic activities by establishing and maintaining an inclusive sports program.
      (b)  The University Interscholastic League shall adopt rules as necessary to establish, maintain, and expand the inclusive sports program.  The rules must:
            (1)  accommodate inclusive team sports offered through the program at participating public middle schools, junior high schools, and high schools in the state;
            (2)  establish eligibility requirements for participation in each inclusive team sport offered through the program;
            (3)  identify best practices for school districts to incorporate inclusive sports; and
            (4)  require the program to incorporate activities that promote:
                  (A)  bullying prevention;
                  (B)  moral intelligence;
                  (C)  character development;
                  (D)  leadership development;
                  (E)  physical fitness; and
                  (F)  positive school culture.
      (c)  In adopting the rules under Subsection (b), the University Interscholastic League shall consider and incorporate as appropriate:
            (1)  federal guidance regarding providing access to extracurricular athletics for students with intellectual disabilities;
            (2)  guidance available from nationally recognized organizations that promote inclusion and acceptance among students with and without intellectual disabilities;
            (3)  information regarding inclusive sports programs that have been successfully implemented in this state, in other states, and by nonprofit organizations;
            (4)  input from school districts and the agency; and
            (5)  guidance provided by impacted stakeholders, including by parents of or persons standing in parental relation to students with intellectual disabilities.
      (d)  The University Interscholastic League may appoint a person to provide guidance on behalf of impacted stakeholders for purposes of Subsection (c)(5).
      (e)  In maintaining the inclusive sports program, the University Interscholastic League shall, to the greatest extent possible, require:
            (1)  students who participate in the inclusive sports program to be subject to the same rules and requirements as students who participate in other athletic programs offered by the league, including:
                  (A)  grade and disciplinary requirements under Section 33.081(c); and
                  (B)  requirements related to student safety in athletic activities under this chapter and Chapter 38; and
            (2)  team sports provided through the inclusive sports program to be organized similarly to other athletic programs offered by the league, including with respect to team practices, seasonal play, and local and statewide competitions.
      (f)  In addition to using funds available or appropriated for the purpose, the University Interscholastic League or a partner affiliated with the league may seek and accept gifts, grants, or donations of money from public and private sources for the purpose of establishing or expanding the inclusive sports program.
Added by Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 522 (S.B. 776), Sec. 2, eff. September 1, 2021.

      Sec. 33.099.  SAFETY OF OFFICIAL.  A school district or open-enrollment charter school that holds an extracurricular athletic activity or a University Interscholastic League athletic competition on district or school property shall provide a peace officer, a school resource officer, an administrator, or security personnel to ensure the safety of a referee, judge, or other official of the activity or competition until the official departs district or school property if:
            (1)  a participant or spectator of the activity or competition engages in, attempts to engage in, or threatens violent conduct against the official or otherwise disrupts the duties or free movement of the official; or
            (2)  the district or school reasonably suspects that an incident described by Subdivision (1) may occur at the activity or competition.
Added by Acts 2023, 88th Leg., R.S., Ch. 833 (H.B. 2484), Sec. 2, eff. June 13, 2023.

SUBCHAPTER E. COMMUNITIES IN SCHOOLS PROGRAM

      Sec. 33.151.  DEFINITIONS.  In this subchapter:
            (1)  Repealed by Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1204, Sec. 4, eff. September 1, 2007.
            (2)  "Communities In Schools program" means an exemplary youth dropout prevention program.
            (3)  "Delinquent conduct" has the meaning assigned by Section 51.03, Family Code.
            (4)  "Student at risk of dropping out of school" means:
                  (A)  a student at risk of dropping out of school as defined by Section 29.081;
                  (B)  a student who is eligible for a free or reduced lunch;  or
                  (C)  a student who is in family conflict or crisis.
Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 269, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1993.  Renumbered from Labor Code Sec. 216.001 by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 655, Sec. 11.05, eff. Sept. 1, 1995.  Amended by Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 165, Sec. 6.69, eff. Sept. 1, 1997.  Redesignated from Labor Code, Sec. 305.001 and amended by Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 489, Sec. 3, eff. Sept. 1, 1999.  Redesignated from Family Code, Sec. 264.751 and amended by Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 198, Sec. 2.118(a), eff. Sept. 1, 2003;  Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 1205, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 2003.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1204 (H.B. 1609), Sec. 4, eff. September 1, 2007.

      Sec. 33.152.  STATEWIDE OPERATION OF PROGRAM.  It is the intent of the legislature that the Communities In Schools program operate throughout this state.  It is also the intent of the legislature that programs established under Chapter 305, Labor Code, as that chapter existed on August 31, 1999, and its predecessor statute, the Texas Unemployment Compensation Act (Article 5221b-9d, Vernon's Texas Civil Statutes), and programs established under this subchapter shall remain eligible to participate in the Communities In Schools program if funds are available and if their performance meets the criteria established by the agency for renewal of their contracts.
Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 269, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1993.  Renumbered from Labor Code Sec. 216.002 by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 655, Sec. 11.05, eff. Sept. 1, 1995.  Redesignated from Labor Code Sec. 305.002 and amended by Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 489, Sec. 3, eff. Sept. 1, 1999.  Redesignated from Family Code Sec. 264.752 and amended by Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 198, Sec. 2.118(a), eff. Sept. 1, 2003;  Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 1205, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 2003.

      Sec. 33.154.  DUTIES OF COMMISSIONER.  (a)  The commissioner shall:
            (1)  coordinate the efforts of the Communities In Schools program with other social service organizations and agencies and with public school personnel to provide services to students who are at risk of dropping out of school or engaging in delinquent conduct, including students who are in family conflict or emotional crisis;
            (2)  set standards for the Communities In Schools program and establish state performance goals, objectives, and measures for the program, including performance goals, objectives, and measures that consider improvement in student:
                  (A)  behavior;
                  (B)  academic achievement; and
                  (C)  promotion, graduation, retention, and dropout rates;
            (3)  obtain information to determine accomplishment of state performance goals, objectives, and measures;
            (4)  promote and market the program in communities in which the program is not established;
            (5)  help communities that want to participate in the program establish a local funding base; 
            (6)  provide training and technical assistance for participating communities and programs; and
            (7)  adopt policies concerning:
                  (A)  the responsibility of the agency in encouraging local businesses to participate in local Communities In Schools programs;
                  (B)  the responsibility of the agency in obtaining information from participating school districts;
                  (C)  the use of federal or state funds available to the agency for programs of this nature;  and
                  (D)  any other areas concerning the program identified by the commissioner.
      (b)  The commissioner shall adopt rules to implement the policies described by Subsection (a)(7) and shall annually update the rules.
      (c)  Notwithstanding any provision of this subchapter, if the commissioner determines that a program consistently fails to achieve the performance goals, objectives, and measures established by the commissioner under Subsection (a)(2), the commissioner may withhold funding from that program and require the program to compete through a competitive bidding process to receive funding to participate in the program.
Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 269, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1993.  Renumbered from Labor Code Sec. 216.012 by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 655, Sec. 11.05, eff. Sept. 1, 1995.  Redesignated from Labor Code Sec. 305.012 and amended by Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 489, Sec. 3, eff. Sept. 1, 1999.  Redesignated from Family Code Sec. 264.754 by Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 198, Sec. 2.118(a), eff. Sept. 1, 2003;  Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 1205, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 2003.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1204 (H.B. 1609), Sec. 1, eff. September 1, 2007.

      Sec. 33.155.  COOPERATION WITH COMMUNITIES IN SCHOOLS, INC. The agency and Communities In Schools, Inc. shall work together to maximize the effectiveness of the Communities In Schools program.
Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 269, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1993.  Renumbered from Labor Code Sec. 216.013 by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 655, Sec. 11.05, eff. Sept. 1, 1995.  Redesignated from Labor Code Sec. 305.013 and amended by Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 489, Sec. 3, eff. Sept. 1, 1999.  Redesignated from Family Code Sec. 264.755 and amended by Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 198, Sec. 2.118(a), eff. Sept. 1, 2003;  Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 1205, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 2003.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1204 (H.B. 1609), Sec. 1, eff. September 1, 2007.

      Sec. 33.156.  FUNDING;  EXPANSION OF PARTICIPATION.  (a)  The agency shall develop and implement an equitable formula for the funding of local Communities In Schools programs.  The formula may provide for the reduction of funds annually contributed by the state to a local program by an amount not more than 50 percent of the amount contributed by the state for the first year of the program.  The formula must consider the financial resources of individual communities and school districts.  Savings accomplished through the implementation of the formula may be used to extend services to counties and municipalities currently not served by a local program or to extend services to counties and municipalities currently served by an existing local program.
      (b)  Each local Communities In Schools program shall develop a funding plan which ensures that the level of services is maintained if state funding is reduced.
      (c)  A local Communities In Schools program may accept federal funds, state funds, private contributions, grants, and public and school district funds to support a campus participating in the program.
Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 269, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1993.  Amended by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 76, Sec. 9.40(a), eff. Sept. 1, 1995.  Renumbered from Labor Code Sec. 216.021 and amended by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 655, Sec. 11.05, eff. Sept. 1, 1995.  Redesignated from Labor Code Sec. 305.021 and amended by Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 489, Sec. 3, eff. Sept. 1, 1999.  Redesignated from Family Code Sec. 264.756 and amended by Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 198, Sec. 2.118(a), eff. Sept. 1, 2003;  Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 1205, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 2003.

      Sec. 33.157.  PARTICIPATION IN PROGRAM.  An elementary or secondary school receiving funding under Section 33.156 shall participate in a local Communities In Schools program if the number of students enrolled in the school who are at risk of dropping out of school is equal to at least 10 percent of the number of students in average daily attendance at the school, as determined by the agency.
Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 269, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1993.  Renumbered from Labor Code Sec. 216.022 and amended by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 655, Sec. 11.05, eff. Sept. 1, 1995.  Redesignated from Labor Code Sec. 305.022 and amended Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 489, Sec. 3, eff. Sept. 1, 1999.  Redesignated from Family Code Sec. 264.757 and amended by Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 198, Sec. 2.118(a), eff. Sept. 1, 2003;  Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 1205, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 2003.

      Sec. 33.158.  DONATIONS TO PROGRAM.  (a)  The agency may accept a donation of services or money or other property that the agency determines furthers the lawful objectives of the agency in connection with the Communities In Schools program.
      (b)  Each donation, with the name of the donor and the purpose of the donation, must be reported in the public records of the agency.
Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 269, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1993.  Renumbered from Labor Code Sec. 216.031 by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 655, Sec. 11.05, eff. Sept. 1, 1995.  Redesignated from Labor Code Sec. 305.031 and amended by Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 489, Sec. 3, eff. Sept. 1, 1999.  Redesignated from Family Code Sec. 264.758 and amended by Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 198, Sec. 2.118(a), eff. Sept. 1, 2003;  Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 1205, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 2003.

      Sec. 33.159.  AGENCY PERFORMANCE OF COMMUNITIES IN SCHOOLS FUNCTIONS REQUIRED.  The agency, through the Communities In Schools State Office:
            (1)  must perform each function concerning the Communities In Schools program for which the agency is responsible; and
            (2)  may not contract with a private entity to perform a function described by Subdivision (1).
Added by Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1204 (H.B. 1609), Sec. 2, eff. September 1, 2007.

SUBCHAPTER F.  SAFETY REGULATIONS FOR CERTAIN
EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES

      Sec. 33.201.  APPLICABILITY.  This subchapter applies to each public school in this state and to any other school in this state subject to University Interscholastic League rules.
Added by Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1296 (S.B. 82), Sec. 1, eff. June 15, 2007.

      Sec. 33.202.  SAFETY TRAINING REQUIRED.  (a)  The University Interscholastic League shall develop and adopt an extracurricular activity safety training program as provided by this section.  In developing the program, the league may use materials available from the American Red Cross, Emergency Medical Systems (EMS), or another appropriate entity.
      (b)  The following persons must satisfactorily complete the safety training program in accordance with the policy adopted under Section 21.4515:
            (1)  a coach, trainer, or sponsor for an extracurricular athletic activity; and
            (2)   a director responsible for a school marching band.
      (c)  The safety training program must include:
            (1)  certification of participants by the American Red Cross, the American Heart Association, or a similar organization or by the University Interscholastic League;
            (2)  current training in:
                  (A)  emergency action planning;
                  (B)   communicating effectively with 9-1-1 emergency service operators and other emergency personnel; and
                  (C)  recognizing symptoms of potentially catastrophic injuries, including head and neck injuries, concussions, injuries related to second impact syndrome, asthma attacks, heatstroke, cardiac arrest, and injuries requiring use of a defibrillator; and
            (3)  a safety drill that incorporates the training described by Subdivision (2) and simulates various injuries described by Subdivision (2)(C).
Added by Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1296 (S.B. 82), Sec. 1, eff. June 15, 2007.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 439 (S.B. 1376), Sec. 2.01, eff. June 4, 2019.
      Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1045 (S.B. 1267), Sec. 15, eff. June 18, 2021.
      Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1045 (S.B. 1267), Sec. 24(9), eff. June 18, 2021.

      Sec. 33.203.  COMPLETION OF UNIVERSITY INTERSCHOLASTIC LEAGUE FORMS.  (a)  Each student participating in an extracurricular athletic activity must complete the University Interscholastic League forms entitled "Preparticipation Physical Evaluation--Medical History" and "Acknowledgment of Rules."  Each form must be signed by both the student and the student's parent or guardian.
      (b)  Each form specified by Subsection (a) must clearly state that failure to accurately and truthfully answer all questions on a form required by statute or by the University Interscholastic League as a condition for participation in an extracurricular athletic activity subjects a signer of the form to penalties determined by the University Interscholastic League.
Added by Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1296 (S.B. 82), Sec. 1, eff. June 15, 2007.

      Sec. 33.204.  CERTAIN UNSAFE ATHLETIC ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.  A coach, trainer, or sponsor for an extracurricular athletic activity may not encourage or permit a student participating in the activity to engage in any unreasonably dangerous athletic technique that unnecessarily endangers the health of a student, including using a helmet or any other sports equipment as a weapon.
Added by Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1296 (S.B. 82), Sec. 1, eff. June 15, 2007.

      Sec. 33.205.  CERTAIN SAFETY PRECAUTIONS REQUIRED.  (a)  A coach, trainer, or sponsor for an extracurricular athletic activity shall at each athletic practice or competition ensure that:
            (1)  each student participating in the activity is adequately hydrated;
            (2)  any prescribed asthma medication for a student participating in the activity is readily available to the student;
            (3)  emergency lanes providing access to the practice or competition area are open and clear; and
            (4)  heatstroke prevention materials are readily available.
      (b)  If a student participating in an extracurricular athletic activity, including a practice or competition, becomes unconscious during the activity, the student may not:
            (1)  return to the practice or competition during which the student became unconscious; or
            (2)  participate in any extracurricular athletic activity until the student receives written authorization for such participation from a physician.
Added by Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1296 (S.B. 82), Sec. 1, eff. June 15, 2007.

      Sec. 33.206.  COMPLIANCE; ENFORCEMENT.  (a)  In accordance with Chapter 552, Government Code, a school shall make available to the public proof of compliance for each person enrolled in, employed by, or volunteering for the school who is required to receive safety training described by Section 33.202.
      (b)  The superintendent of a school district or the director of a school subject to this subchapter shall maintain complete and accurate records of the district's or school's compliance with Section 33.202.
      (c)  A school campus that is determined by the school's superintendent or director to be out of compliance with Section 33.202, 33.204, or 33.205 with regard to University Interscholastic League activities shall be subject to the range of penalties determined by the University Interscholastic League.
Added by Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1296 (S.B. 82), Sec. 1, eff. June 15, 2007.

      Sec. 33.207.  CONTACT INFORMATION.  (a)  The commissioner shall maintain an existing telephone number and an electronic mail address to allow a person to report a violation of this subchapter.
      (b)  Each school that offers an extracurricular athletic activity shall prominently display at the administrative offices of the school the telephone number and electronic mail address maintained under Subsection (a).
Added by Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1296 (S.B. 82), Sec. 1, eff. June 15, 2007.

      Sec. 33.208.  NOTICE REQUIRED.  (a)   A school that offers an extracurricular athletic activity shall provide to each student participating in an extracurricular athletic activity and to the student's parent or guardian a copy of the text of Sections 33.201-33.207 and a copy of the University Interscholastic League's parent information manual.
      (b)  A document required to be provided under this section may be provided in an electronic format unless otherwise requested by a student, parent, or guardian.
Added by Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1296 (S.B. 82), Sec. 1, eff. June 15, 2007.

      Sec. 33.209.  INCORPORATION OF SAFETY REGULATIONS.  The University Interscholastic League shall incorporate the provisions of Sections 33.203-33.207 into the league's constitution and contest rules.
Added by Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1296 (S.B. 82), Sec. 1, eff. June 15, 2007.

      Sec. 33.210.  IMMUNITY FROM LIABILITY.  This subchapter does not waive any liability or immunity of a school district or its officers or employees.  This subchapter does not create any liability for or a cause of action against a school district or its officers or employees.
Added by Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1296 (S.B. 82), Sec. 1, eff. June 15, 2007.

      Sec. 33.211.  LIMITATION ON LIABILITY.  A person who volunteers to assist with an extracurricular activity is not liable for civil damages arising out of an act or omission relating to the requirements under Section 33.205 unless the act or omission is willfully or wantonly negligent.
Added by Acts 2007, 80th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1296 (S.B. 82), Sec. 1, eff. June 15, 2007.

SUBCHAPTER G.  EXPANDED LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES COUNCIL

      Sec. 33.251.  DEFINITION.  In this chapter, "council" means the Expanded Learning Opportunities Council.
Added by Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 531 (S.B. 503), Sec. 1, eff. June 14, 2013.

      Sec. 33.252.  EXPANDED LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES.  (a)  Expanded learning opportunities may be provided during:
            (1)  an extended school day;
            (2)  an extended school year; or
            (3)  structured learning programs outside of the regular school day, including before- and after-school programs and summer programs.
      (b)  Expanded learning opportunities may be provided by offering:
            (1)  rigorous coursework;
            (2)  mentoring;
            (3)  tutoring;
            (4)  physical activity;
            (5)  academic support; or
            (6)  educational enrichment in one or more subjects, including fine arts, civic engagement, science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.
Added by Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 531 (S.B. 503), Sec. 1, eff. June 14, 2013.

      Sec. 33.253.  ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSES.  (a)  The Expanded Learning Opportunities Council is established to:
            (1)  study issues concerning expanded learning opportunities for this state's public school students, including:
                  (A)  issues related to creating safe places for children outside of the regular school day, improving the academic success of students who participate in expanded learning opportunities programs, and assisting working families; and
                  (B)  other issues prescribed under Section 33.258; and
            (2)  make recommendations as provided by Section 33.259 to address issues studied under this subchapter.
      (b)  In conducting studies under this subchapter, the council shall focus on innovative, hands-on learning approaches that complement rather than replicate the regular school curriculum.
Added by Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 531 (S.B. 503), Sec. 1, eff. June 14, 2013.

      Sec. 33.254.  SUNSET PROVISION.  The council is subject to Chapter 325, Government Code (Texas Sunset Act).  Unless continued in existence as provided by that chapter, the council is abolished and this subchapter expires September 1, 2029.
Added by Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 531 (S.B. 503), Sec. 1, eff. June 14, 2013.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 938 (H.B. 3123), Sec. 2.01, eff. June 18, 2015.
      Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 596 (S.B. 619), Sec. 4.02, eff. June 10, 2019.
      Acts 2023, 88th Leg., R.S., Ch. 941 (S.B. 1659), Sec. 1.02, eff. June 18, 2023.

      Sec. 33.255.  COMPOSITION.  The council is composed of 13 members appointed by the commissioner as follows:
            (1)  two members of the public, including one representing the business community and one parent of a public school student participating in an expanded learning opportunities program in this state;
            (2)  two members who are involved in research-based expanded learning opportunities efforts in this state so that at least one is involved in efforts to extend the school day or school year and at least one is involved in efforts to provide out of school time before or after the regular school day or during the period in which school is recessed for the summer;
            (3)  one member representing law enforcement;
            (4)  one member representing the agency;
            (5)  one member who is an educator, other than a superintendent, at the elementary school level;
            (6)  one member who is an educator, other than a superintendent, at the middle or junior high school level;
            (7)  one member who is an educator, other than a superintendent, at the high school level;
            (8)  one member who is a public school superintendent;
            (9)  one member representing a foundation that invests in expanded learning opportunities;
            (10)  one member representing a nonprofit organization that provides programs concerning good nutrition and prevention of or intervention to address childhood obesity; and
            (11)  one member who is a provider representing summer camps.
Added by Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 531 (S.B. 503), Sec. 1, eff. June 14, 2013.

      Sec. 33.256.  MEETINGS.  (a)  The council shall meet in person at least three times each year and may hold additional meetings by conference call if necessary.
      (b)  Section 551.125, Government Code, applies to a meeting held by conference call under this section, except that Section 551.125(b), Government Code, does not apply.
Added by Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 531 (S.B. 503), Sec. 1, eff. June 14, 2013.

      Sec. 33.257.  COMPENSATION.  A member of the council may not receive compensation for service on the council.
Added by Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 531 (S.B. 503), Sec. 1, eff. June 14, 2013.

      Sec. 33.258.  POWERS AND DUTIES.  (a)  The council shall:
            (1)  study issues related to expanded learning opportunities for public school students;
            (2)  study current research and best practices related to meaningful expanded learning opportunities;
            (3)  analyze the availability of and unmet needs for state and local programs for expanded learning opportunities for public school students;
            (4)  analyze opportunities to create incentives for businesses to support expanded learning opportunities programs for public school students;
            (5)  analyze opportunities to maximize charitable support for public and private partnerships for expanded learning opportunities programs for public school students;
            (6)  analyze opportunities to promote science, technology, engineering, and mathematics in expanded learning opportunities programs for public school students;
            (7)  study the future workforce needs of this state's businesses and other employers; and
            (8)  perform other duties consistent with this subchapter.
      (b)  In carrying out its powers and duties under this section, the council may request reports and other information relating to expanded learning opportunities and students in expanded learning opportunities programs from the Texas Education Agency and any other state agency.
Added by Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 531 (S.B. 503), Sec. 1, eff. June 14, 2013.

      Sec. 33.259.  STATEWIDE EXPANDED LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES PLAN; REPORT.  (a)  The council shall develop a comprehensive statewide action plan for the improvement of expanded learning opportunities for public school students in this state, including a timeline for implementation of the plan.
      (b)  The council shall submit to both houses of the legislature, the governor, and the agency on or before November 1 of each even-numbered year a written report concerning:
            (1)  the status of the development or implementation of the council's statewide action plan, as applicable;
            (2)  any action taken to further development or implementation of the plan;
            (3)  any area that needs improvement in implementing the plan;
            (4)  any recommended change to the plan; and
            (5)  programs and services that address expanded learning opportunities outside of the regular school day.
Added by Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 531 (S.B. 503), Sec. 1, eff. June 14, 2013.

      Sec. 33.260.  GIFTS, GRANTS, AND DONATIONS.  The agency may accept on behalf of the council a gift, grant, or donation from any source to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.
Added by Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 531 (S.B. 503), Sec. 1, eff. June 14, 2013.

SUBCHAPTER Z. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

      Sec. 33.901.  BREAKFAST PROGRAMS.  (a)  If at least 10 percent of the students enrolled in one or more schools in a school district or enrolled in an open-enrollment charter school are eligible for free or reduced-price breakfasts under the national school breakfast program provided for by the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. Section 1773), the board of trustees of the school district or the governing body of the open-enrollment charter school shall either:
            (1)  participate in the national program and make the benefits of the national program available to all eligible students in the schools or school; or
            (2)  develop and implement a locally funded program to provide free meals, including breakfast and lunch, to each student eligible for free meals under federal law and reduced-price meals, including breakfast and lunch, to each student eligible for reduced-price meals under federal law, provided that the reduced price may not exceed the maximum allowable rate under federal law.
      (a-1)  A school district is permitted under Subsection (a) to participate in the national program at one or more campuses in the district and provide a locally funded program at one or more other campuses in the district.
      (b)  A school district campus or an open-enrollment charter school participating in the national school breakfast program provided by the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. Section 1773) or providing a locally funded program in which 80 percent or more of the students qualify under the national program for a free or reduced-price breakfast shall offer a free breakfast to each student.
      (c)  The commissioner shall grant a waiver of the free breakfast requirements under Subsection (b), not to exceed one year, to a school district campus or an open-enrollment charter school if the board of trustees of the school district or the governing body of the open-enrollment charter school votes to request the waiver at the annual meeting of the board of trustees required under Section 44.004 or an annual meeting of the governing body called to adopt a budget for the open-enrollment charter school for the succeeding fiscal year.  Before voting to request a waiver under this subsection, the board of trustees or the governing body shall list the waiver as a separate item for consideration on the meeting's agenda and provide an opportunity for public comment regarding the waiver at the meeting.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 260, Sec. 1, eff. May 30, 1995.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 130 (S.B. 376), Sec. 1, eff. September 1, 2013.
      Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1250 (H.B. 1305), Sec. 1, eff. June 20, 2015.

      Sec. 33.9011.  PROHIBITION ON CERTAIN ADDITIVES IN FREE OR REDUCED-PRICE MEALS. (a)  In this section:
            (1)  "National school breakfast program" means the national school breakfast program under the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. Section 1773).
            (2)  "National school lunch program" means the national school lunch program of free or reduced-price lunches under 42 U.S.C. Section 1751 et seq.
      (b)  A school district or open-enrollment charter school that provides free or reduced-price meals to eligible students under Section 33.901, the national school breakfast program, or the national school lunch program may not provide as part of a free or reduced-price meal any food that contains the following substances:
            (1)  brominated vegetable oil (BVO);
            (2)  potassium bromate;
            (3)  propylparaben;
            (4)  azodicarbonamide;
            (5)  butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA);
            (6)  red 3 (CAS 16423-68-0);
            (7)  red 40 (CAS 25956-17-6);
            (8)  yellow 5 (CAS 1934-21-0);
            (9)  yellow 6 (CAS 2783-94-0);
            (10)  blue 1 (CAS 3844-45-9);
            (11)  blue 2 (CAS 860-22-0);
            (12)  green 3 (CAS 2353-45-9);
            (13)  citrus red 3 (CAS 6358-53-8);
            (14)  orange B (CAS 15139-76-1);
            (15)  INS No. 150c/ammonia caramel (Class III);
            (16)  INS No. 150d/sulfite ammonia caramel (Class IV);
            (17)  titanium dioxide; or
            (18)  any additive that is substantially similar to an additive specified in Subdivisions (1) through (17).
      (c)  A school district or open-enrollment charter school that receives a waiver under Section 7.056 is not in violation of this section.
Added by Acts 2025, 89th Leg., R.S., Ch. 177 (S.B. 314), Sec. 1, eff. May 27, 2025.

      Sec. 33.902.  PUBLIC SCHOOL CHILD CARE.  (a)  In this section, "school-age students" means children enrolled as students in prekindergarten through grade 7.
      (b)  Repealed by Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., 1st C.S., Ch. 8, Sec. 21(3), eff. September 28, 2011.
      (c)  Repealed by Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., 1st C.S., Ch. 8, Sec. 21(3), eff. September 28, 2011.
      (d)  The Work and Family Policies Clearinghouse may distribute money appropriated by the legislature to any school district for the purpose of implementing school-age child care before and after the school day and during school holidays and vacations for a school district's school-age students.  Eligible use of funds shall include planning, development, establishment, expansion, or improvement of child care services and reasonable start-up costs.  The clearinghouse may distribute money to pay fees charged for providing services to students who are considered to be at risk of dropping out of school under Section 29.081.  The Texas Workforce Commission shall by rule establish procedures and eligibility requirements for distributing this money to school districts.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 260, Sec. 1, eff. May 30, 1995.  Amended by Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 118, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1997.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., 1st C.S., Ch. 8 (S.B. 8), Sec. 21(3), eff. September 28, 2011.

      Sec. 33.903.  COMMUNITY EDUCATION CHILD CARE SERVICES.  (a)  The agency shall establish a pilot program for the development of community education child care services as provided by this section.  From the total amount of funds appropriated to the agency, the commissioner shall withhold an amount specified in the General Appropriations Act and distribute that amount for programs under this section.  A program established under this section is required only in a school district in which the program is financed by funds distributed under this section and any other funds available for the program.
      (b)  The legislature may make appropriations to the agency for the purpose of supporting before- and after-school child care programs in a school district that is operating a community education development project.
      (c)  The agency shall actively seek federal grants or funds to operate or expand a program established under this section.
      (d)  The State Board of Education by rule shall establish a procedure for distributing funds to school districts for child care programs under this section.  The procedure must include a statewide competitive process by which the agency shall evaluate applications for child care programs submitted by eligible school districts and award funds to those districts whose applications the agency considers to possess the greatest merit.  The State Board of Education by rule shall establish guidelines and objectives that the agency shall use in making evaluations for funding determination purposes.  A school district is not entitled to administrative or judicial review of the agency's funding determination, except to the extent that the State Board of Education by rule provides for administrative review.
      (e)  The agency may not consider a school district's application for child care funding unless the application:
            (1)  contains a resolution by the district's board of trustees or governing body adopting a particular child care plan;
            (2)  states the anticipated funding requirements for the district's child care program and provides the agency with the data and any analysis used to prepare the funding estimate;
            (3)  includes or is accompanied by a statement outlining how the proposed project effectuates the goals of this section and complies with the guidelines and objectives established under Subsection (d);
            (4)  provides that the district will provide before- and after-school care between the hours of 7 a.m. and 6 p.m. for any student in kindergarten through grade eight whose parents or legal guardians work, attend school, or participate in a job-training program during those hours;
            (5)  specifies that the district's child care program outlined in the application will maintain a ratio of not less than one caregiver per 20 students in kindergarten through grade three and a ratio of not less than one caregiver per 25 students in grades four through eight and will provide age-appropriate educational and recreational activities and homework assistance;  and
            (6)  states that the district has appointed a child care administrator.
      (f)  A school district's child care administrator shall administer and coordinate the program under the authority of the district superintendent or another administrator the superintendent designates.  The child care administrator shall appoint a coordinator to oversee the child care activities at each school site under the authority of the school's principal.  Each district is encouraged to collaborate with child care management system contractors and Head Start program providers.
      (g)  Each school district may provide full-day care for students on school holidays and teacher preparation days and during periods school is in recess, including summer vacation.
      (h)  A school district may supplement any funds received under this section with funds received through other government assistance programs, program tuition, or private donations.  Any tuition charge may reflect only the actual cost of care provided to the student, and the agency or other appropriate governmental agency approved by the commissioner may audit a program to ensure compliance with this subsection.  A school district shall use state funds awarded under this section to benefit educationally disadvantaged children before using those funds for the care of other children.
      (i)  A school district may not use funds awarded under this section for student transportation unless that transportation is incident to an activity related to the curriculum of the child care program.
      (j)  A school district may use funds awarded under this section to contract with a private entity for providing child care services.  Each of those entities shall adhere to the requirements of this section.  A contract under this subsection is not effective until approved by the agency.  The agency shall review each contract to ensure that the services to be delivered comply with this section.  Each contract shall be awarded without regard to the race or gender of the contracting party, notwithstanding any other law.
      (k)  Each school district receiving funds under this section shall adopt minimum training and skills requirements that each individual providing child care or staff assistance for a district program under this section must satisfy.  The agency shall determine whether those minimum requirements fulfill the aims and policies of this section and shall suspend the payment of funds to any district whose minimum requirements fail to fulfill the aims and policies of this section.  The State Board of Education by rule shall adopt criteria by which the agency shall evaluate district minimum training and skills requirements.  Any suspension order is subject to Chapter 2001, Government Code.  A district may seek review of a suspension order under the review process adopted under Subsection (m).
      (l)  The State Board of Education by rule may authorize a school district to receive technical and planning assistance from a regional education service center.
      (m)  The agency shall monitor and review programs receiving funds under this section and may suspend funds to a school district whose programs fail to comply with this section.  The State Board of Education by rule shall adopt an administrative process to review a suspension.  Both a suspension order and the administrative review process are subject to Chapter 2001, Government Code.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 260, Sec. 1, eff. May 30, 1995.

      Sec. 33.9031.  BEFORE-SCHOOL AND AFTER-SCHOOL PROGRAMS.  (a)  The board of trustees of a school district may establish before-school or after-school programs for students enrolled in elementary or middle school grades.  A program established under this section may operate before, after, or before and after school hours.
      (b)  A student is eligible to participate in a school district's before-school or after-school program if the student:
            (1)  is enrolled in a public or private school; or
            (2)  resides within the boundaries of the school district.
      (c)  A school district shall conduct a request for proposals procurement process to enable the district to determine if contracting with a child-care facility that provides a before-school or after-school program, as defined by Section 42.002, Human Resources Code, to provide the district's before-school or after-school program would serve the district's best interests.  Following the request for proposals procurement process, the district may enter into a contract with a child-care facility or implement a before-school or after-school program operated by the district.  If the district enters into a contract with a child-care facility, the contract must comply with the requirements of Section 44.031 and may not exceed a term of three years.
      (d)  The board of trustees of a school district may adopt rules in accordance with Section 11.165 to provide access to school campuses before or after school hours for the purpose of providing a before-school or after-school program.
Added by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 925 (S.B. 1566), Sec. 11, eff. September 1, 2017.

      Sec. 33.904.  LIAISON FOR CERTAIN CHILDREN IN CONSERVATORSHIP OF STATE.  (a)  Each school district and open-enrollment charter school shall:
            (1)  appoint at least one employee to act as a liaison officer to facilitate the enrollment in or transfer to a public school or open-enrollment charter school of a child in the district or area served by the charter school who is in the conservatorship of the state; and
            (2)  submit the liaison's name and contact information to the agency in a format and under the schedule determined by the commissioner.
      (b)  The agency shall provide information to the liaisons on practices for facilitating the enrollment in or transfer to a public school or open-enrollment charter school of children who are in the conservatorship of the state.
Added by Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 725 (H.B. 826), Sec. 1, eff. September 1, 2011.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 579 (S.B. 832), Sec. 1, eff. June 14, 2013.

      Sec. 33.907.  DONATION OF FOOD.  (a)  In this section:
            (1)  "Donate" has the meaning assigned by Section 76.001, Civil Practice and Remedies Code.
            (2)  "Nonprofit organization" has the meaning assigned by Section 76.001, Civil Practice and Remedies Code.
      (b)  A school district or open-enrollment charter school may allow a campus to elect to donate food to a nonprofit organization through a person who is directly and officially affiliated with the campus, including a teacher or counselor, or through a parent of a student enrolled at the campus.  The donated food may be received, stored, and distributed on the campus.  Food donated by the campus may include:
            (1)  surplus food prepared for breakfast, lunch, or dinner meals or snacks served from the campus cafeteria, subject to any applicable local, state, and federal requirements; or
            (2)  food donated to the campus as the result of a food drive or similar event.
      (c)  The type of food donated under Subsection (b)(1) may include:
            (1)  packaged unserved food that is packaged on the campus of a school district or open-enrollment charter school and has not been removed from the campus cafeteria;
            (2)  packaged served food if the packaging and food are in good condition;
            (3)  whole, uncut produce; and
            (4)  wrapped raw unserved produce.
      (c-1)  Food that by law must be maintained at a certain temperature for safety may not be donated unless the campus has maintained the food at the required temperature.
      (d)  Food donated under this section to a nonprofit organization may be distributed at the campus at any time.  Campus employees may assist in preparing and distributing the food as volunteers for the nonprofit organization.
      (e)  Under this program, a school district or open-enrollment charter school may adopt a policy under which the district or charter school provides food at no cost to a student for breakfast, lunch, or dinner meals or a snack if the student is unable to purchase breakfast, lunch, or dinner meals or a snack.
      (f)  The commissioner may adopt rules as necessary to implement this section.
Added by Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 569 (S.B. 725), Sec. 1, eff. June 9, 2017.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 610 (S.B. 1351), Sec. 1, eff. September 1, 2021.

      Sec. 33.908.  GRACE PERIOD POLICY FOR EXHAUSTED OR INSUFFICIENT MEAL CARD OR ACCOUNT BALANCE.  The board of trustees of a school district that allows students to use a prepaid meal card or account to purchase meals served at schools in the district shall adopt a grace period policy regarding the use of the cards or accounts.  The policy:
            (1)  must allow a student whose meal card or account balance is exhausted or insufficient to continue, for a period determined by the board, to purchase meals by:
                  (A)  accumulating a negative balance on the student's card or account; or
                  (B)  otherwise receiving an extension of credit from the district;
            (2)  must require the district to notify the parent of or person standing in parental relation to the student that the student's meal card or account balance is exhausted;
            (3)  may not permit the district to charge a fee or interest in connection with meals purchased under Subdivision (1); and
            (4)  may permit the district to set a schedule for repayment on the account balance as part of the notice to the parent or person standing in parental relation to the student.
Added by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 875 (H.B. 3562), Sec. 1, eff. June 18, 2015.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 925 (S.B. 1566), Sec. 12, eff. September 1, 2017.

      Sec. 33.909.  PURPLE STAR CAMPUS.  (a)  In this section, "military-connected student" has the meaning assigned by Section 25.006.
      (b)  The agency shall designate a school district campus as a Purple Star Campus if the campus applies and qualifies for the designation under this section.
      (c)  To qualify as a Purple Star Campus, a campus must:
            (1)  designate a staff member as a military liaison, whose duties include:
                  (A)  identifying military-connected students enrolled at the campus through the Public Education Information Management System (PEIMS);
                  (B)  serving as the point of contact between the campus and military-connected students and their families;
                  (C)  determining appropriate campus services available to military-connected students; and
                  (D)  assisting in coordinating campus programs relevant to military-connected students;
            (2)  maintain on the campus Internet website an easily accessible web page that includes resources for military-connected students and their families, including information regarding:
                  (A)  relocation to, enrollment at, registration at, and transferring records to the campus;
                  (B)  academic planning, course sequences, and advanced classes available at the campus;
                  (C)  counseling and other support services available for military-connected students enrolled at the campus; and
                  (D)  the military liaison designated under Subdivision (1) and the liaison's duties under that subdivision;
            (3)  maintain a transition program led by students, where appropriate, that assists military-connected students in transitioning into the campus;
            (4)  offer professional development for staff members on issues related to military-connected students; and
            (5)  offer at least one of the following initiatives:
                  (A)  a resolution showing support for military-connected students and their families;
                  (B)  recognition of the Month of the Military Child or Military Family Month with relevant events hosted by the campus; or
                  (C)  a partnership with a local military installation that provides opportunities for active duty military members to volunteer at the campus, speak at an assembly, or host a field trip.
      (d)  To comply with a requirement under Subsection (c)(2), (4), or (5), a school district campus may partner with the district to provide:
            (1)  an Internet website web page required under Subsection (c)(2) if the campus does not have an Internet website;
            (2)  professional development required under Subsection (c)(4); or
            (3)  an initiative required under Subsection (c)(5).
      (e)  The agency shall adopt rules as necessary to administer this section.
Added by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 269 (S.B. 1557), Sec. 2, eff. May 28, 2019.

      Sec. 33.913.  TUTORING PROGRAM.  (a)  A member of a nonprofit teacher organization or a person who is not a member but meets the requirements under Subsection (b) may participate in a tutoring program in accordance with this section to provide supplemental instruction to students in kindergarten through grade 12 on an individualized or small-group basis.
      (b)  To participate in the program as a tutor, a person must:
            (1)  be an active or retired teacher;
            (2)  apply for the position in a manner specified by the nonprofit organization;
            (3)  designate in the application whether the person plans to provide tutoring:
                  (A)  for compensation, on a volunteer basis, or both; and
                  (B)  in person, online, or both; and
            (4)  not be included in the registry of persons not eligible for employment by a public school under Section 22A.151.
      (c)  The superintendent or chief executive officer of each school district or open-enrollment charter school or the person designated by the superintendent or chief executive officer shall:
            (1)  oversee the tutoring program within the district or school; and 
            (2)  not later than the last day of each semester, submit a report to the board of trustees of the district or the governing body of the school that includes, with respect to that semester:
                  (A)  the number of active or retired teachers who contacted the district or school to offer tutoring services to students in the district or school; and
                  (B)  the number of active or retired teachers who were used by the district or school as a tutor on a volunteer basis or employed by the district or school to provide tutoring services for compensation.
      (d)  A school district or open-enrollment charter school may use any available local, state, or federal funds to provide compensation to a person participating in the program as a tutor who is providing tutoring for compensation under the program.
      (e)  If an active or retired teacher who has been approved for participation in the tutoring program contacts a school district or open-enrollment charter school to provide tutoring to students in the district or school and the district or school needs tutoring assistance, the district or school may:
            (1)  if the teacher is providing tutoring services on a volunteer basis, use the volunteer tutoring services provided by the teacher; or
            (2)  if the district or school has local, state, or federal funds for purposes of the tutoring program and the teacher is providing tutoring services for compensation, employ the teacher as a tutor.
      (f)  At least quarterly, each nonprofit organization participating in the tutoring program shall provide to the organization's members:
            (1)  a description of the tutoring program and guidance on how to participate in the program; and
            (2)  the contact information of each person described by Subsection (c) for the school district in which the member resides, any open-enrollment charter schools located within that district, and any adjacent districts.
      (g)  This section does not create a cause of action or liability or an obligation or duty that provides a basis for a cause of action or liability against a nonprofit teacher organization approved by the commissioner for the purpose of participating in the tutoring program for any action taken by a member of the organization participating in the program as a tutor.
Added by Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 806 (H.B. 1525), Sec. 15, eff. September 1, 2021.
Added by Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 880 (S.B. 1356), Sec. 2, eff. June 16, 2021.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2025, 89th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1138 (S.B. 571), Sec. 2.16, eff. June 20, 2025.




	Page -2 -





	Page - 1 -

