GOVERNMENT CODE
TITLE 4. EXECUTIVE BRANCH
SUBTITLE I. HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
CHAPTER 531. HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES COMMISSION

SUBCHAPTER B. POWERS AND DUTIES

      Sec. 531.084.  MEDICAID LONG-TERM CARE COST CONTAINMENT STRATEGIES.  (a)  The commission shall make every effort to achieve cost efficiencies within the Medicaid long-term care program.  To achieve those efficiencies, the commission shall:
            (1)  establish a fee schedule for reimbursable incurred medical expenses for dental services controlled in long-term care facilities;
            (2)  implement a fee schedule for reimbursable incurred medical expenses for durable medical equipment in nursing facilities and ICF-IID facilities;
            (3)  implement a durable medical equipment fee schedule action plan;
            (4)  establish a system for private contractors to secure and coordinate the collection of Medicare funds for recipients who are dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid;
            (5)  create additional partnerships with pharmaceutical companies to obtain discounted prescription drugs for Medicaid recipients; and
            (6)  develop and implement a system for auditing the Medicaid hospice care system that provides services in long-term care facilities to ensure correct billing for pharmaceuticals.
      (b)  The executive commissioner and the commissioner of aging and disability services shall jointly appoint persons to serve on a work group to assist the commission in developing the fee schedule required by Subsection (a)(1).  The work group must consist of providers of long-term care services, including dentists and long-term care advocates.
      (c)  In developing the fee schedule required by Subsection (a)(1), the commission shall consider:
            (1)  the need to ensure access to dental services for residents of long-term care facilities who are unable to travel to a dental office to obtain care;
            (2)  the most recent Comprehensive Fee Report published by the National Dental Advisory Service;
            (3)  the difficulty of providing dental services in long-term care facilities;
            (4)  the complexity of treating medically compromised patients; and
            (5)  time-related and travel-related costs incurred by dentists providing dental services in long-term care facilities.
      (d)  The commission shall annually update the fee schedule required by Subsection (a)(1).
Added by Acts 2005, 79th Leg., Ch. 349 (S.B. 1188), Sec. 5(a), eff. September 1, 2005.
Amended by: 
      Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1 (S.B. 219), Sec. 2.117, eff. April 2, 2015.




	Page -2 -





	Page - 1 -

