H.B. No. 2190
 
 
 
 	
AN ACT

 	relating to the terminology used to describe
 	transportation-related accidents.
 	       BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF TEXAS:
 	       SECTION 1.  Section 22.085(b), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (b)  A joint board may use contracts and rating plans and may
 	implement risk management programs designed to prevent collisions
 	[accidents]. In developing its insurance program, a joint board
 	may consider the peculiar hazards, indemnity standards, and past
 	prospective loss and expense experience of the joint board and of
 	its contractors and subcontractors.
 	       SECTION 2.  Sections 112.103(b) and (c), Transportation
 	Code, are amended to read as follows:
 	       (b)  An operator who is involved, while operating a
 	locomotive, in a collision [an accident] resulting in injury to or
 	death of a person or damage to a vehicle that is driven or attended
 	by a person shall immediately stop the locomotive at the scene of
 	the collision [accident].
 	       (c)  The operator shall render to a person injured in the
 	collision [accident] reasonable assistance, including
 	transporting, or the making of arrangements for transporting, the
 	person to a physician, surgeon, or hospital for medical or surgical
 	treatment if it is apparent that treatment is necessary or if the
 	injured person requests transportation.
 	       SECTION 3.  Section 192.005, Transportation Code, is amended
 	to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 192.005.  RECORD OF COLLISION [ACCIDENT] OR
 	VIOLATION.  If a person operating a railroad locomotive or train is
 	involved in a collision [an accident] with another train or a motor
 	vehicle or is arrested for violation of a law relating to the
 	person's operation of a railroad locomotive or train:
 	             (1)  the number of or other identifying information on
 	the person's driver's license or commercial driver's license may not
 	be included in any report of the collision [accident] or violation;
 	and
 	             (2)  the person's involvement in the collision
 	[accident] or violation may not be recorded in the person's
 	individual driving record maintained by the Department of Public
 	Safety.
 	       SECTION 4.  Section 201.806, Transportation Code, is amended
 	to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 201.806.  COLLISION [ACCIDENT] REPORTS. (a)  The
 	department shall:
 	             (1)  tabulate and analyze the vehicle collision
 	[accident] reports it receives; and
 	             (2)  annually or more frequently publish on the
 	department's Internet website statistical information derived from
 	the collision [accident] reports as to the number, cause, and
 	location of highway collisions [accidents], including information
 	regarding the number of:
 	                   (A)  collisions [accidents] involving injury to,
 	death of, or property damage to a bicyclist or pedestrian; and
 	                   (B)  fatalities caused by a bridge collapse, as
 	defined by Section 550.081.
 	       (b)  The department shall provide electronic access to the
 	system containing the collision [accident] reports so that the
 	Department of Public Safety can perform its duties, including the
 	duty to make timely entries on driver records.
 	       SECTION 5.  Sections 201.909(a), (b), and (c),
 	Transportation Code, are amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  In this section, "victim" means a person killed in a
 	highway collision [accident] involving alcohol or a controlled
 	substance, excluding an operator who was under the influence of
 	alcohol or a controlled substance.
 	       (b)  The commission by rule shall establish and administer a
 	memorial sign program to publicly memorialize the victims of
 	alcohol or controlled substance-related vehicle collisions
 	[accidents].
 	       (c)  A sign designed and posted under this section shall
 	include:
 	             (1)  the phrase "Please Don't Drink and Drive";
 	             (2)  the phrase "In Memory Of" and the name of one or
 	more victims in accordance with the commission rule; and
 	             (3)  the date of the collision [accident] that resulted
 	in the victim's death.
 	       SECTION 6.  Sections 201.911(a), (b), and (c),
 	Transportation Code, are amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  In this section, "victim" means a person killed in a
 	highway collision [accident] while operating or riding on a
 	motorcycle.
 	       (b)  The commission by rule shall establish and administer a
 	memorial sign program to publicly memorialize the victims of
 	motorcycle collisions [accidents].
 	       (c)  A sign designed and posted under this section shall
 	include:
 	             (1)  a red cross;
 	             (2)  the phrase "In Memory Of" and the name of one or
 	more victims in accordance with the commission rule; and
 	             (3)  the date of the collision [accident] that resulted
 	in the victim's death.
 	       SECTION 7.  Section 222.003(d), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (d)  Of the aggregate principal amount of bonds and other
 	public securities that may be issued under this section, the
 	commission shall issue bonds or other public securities in an
 	aggregate principal amount of $1.2 billion to fund projects that
 	reduce collisions [accidents] or correct or improve hazardous
 	locations on the state highway system.  The commission by rule
 	shall prescribe criteria for selecting projects eligible for
 	funding under this section.  In establishing criteria for the
 	projects, the commission shall consider collision [accident] data,
 	traffic volume, pavement geometry, and other conditions that can
 	create or exacerbate hazardous roadway conditions.
 	       SECTION 8.  Section 391.038(c-2), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (c-2)  Subsection (c-1) does not apply to the rebuilding of a
 	sign under Subsection (c) if the person who holds the permit for the
 	sign rebuilds because of damage to the sign caused by:
 	             (1)  wind or a natural disaster;
 	             (2)  a motor vehicle collision [accident]; or
 	             (3)  an act of God.
 	       SECTION 9.  Section 451.108(c), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (c)  A peace officer commissioned under this section, except
 	as provided by Subsections (d) and (e), or a peace officer
 	contracted for employment by an authority confirmed before July 1,
 	1985, in which the principal municipality has a population of less
 	than 850,000, may:
 	             (1)  make an arrest in any county in which the transit
 	authority system is located as necessary to prevent or abate the
 	commission of an offense against the law of this state or a
 	political subdivision of this state if the offense or threatened
 	offense occurs on or involves the transit authority system;
 	             (2)  make an arrest for an offense involving injury or
 	detriment to the transit authority system;
 	             (3)  enforce traffic laws and investigate traffic
 	collisions [accidents] that involve or occur in the transit
 	authority system; and
 	             (4)  provide emergency and public safety services to
 	the transit authority system or users of the transit authority
 	system.
 	       SECTION 10.  Section 451.454(c), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (c)  Each audit must include an examination of:
 	             (1)  one or more of the following:
 	                   (A)  the administration and management of the
 	authority;
 	                   (B)  transit operations; or
 	                   (C)  transit authority system maintenance;
 	             (2)  the authority's compliance with applicable state
 	law, including this chapter; and
 	             (3)  the following performance indicators:
 	                   (A)  operating cost per passenger, per revenue
 	mile, and per revenue hour;
 	                   (B)  sales and use tax receipts per passenger;
 	                   (C)  fare recovery rate;
 	                   (D)  average vehicle occupancy;
 	                   (E)  on-time performance;
 	                   (F)  number of collisions [accidents] per 100,000
 	miles; and
 	                   (G)  number of miles between mechanical road
 	calls.
 	       SECTION 11.  Section 451.455(h), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (h)  The number of collisions [accidents] per 100,000 miles
 	is computed by multiplying the annual number of collisions
 	[accidents] by 100,000 and dividing the product by the number of
 	miles for all service, including charter and nonrevenue service,
 	directly operated by the authority for the same period. In this
 	subsection, "collision [accident]" includes:
 	             (1)  a collision that involves an authority's revenue
 	vehicle, other than a lawfully parked revenue vehicle, and that
 	results in property damage, injury, or death; and
 	             (2)  an incident that results in the injury or death of
 	a person on board or boarding or alighting from an authority's
 	revenue vehicle.
 	       SECTION 12.  Section 452.062(b), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (b)  An authority may use contracts, rating plans, and risk
 	management programs designed to encourage collision [accident]
 	prevention.
 	       SECTION 13.  Section 452.454(c), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (c)  Each audit must include an examination of:
 	             (1)  one or more of the following:
 	                   (A)  the administration and management of the
 	authority;
 	                   (B)  transit operations; or
 	                   (C)  transit authority system maintenance;
 	             (2)  the authority's compliance with applicable state
 	law, including this chapter; and
 	             (3)  the following performance indicators:
 	                   (A)  subsidy per passenger, operating cost per
 	revenue mile, and operating cost per revenue hour;
 	                   (B)  sales and use tax receipts per passenger;
 	                   (C)  fare recovery rate;
 	                   (D)  number of passengers per hour;
 	                   (E)  on-time performance;
 	                   (F)  number of collisions [accidents] per 100,000
 	miles; and
 	                   (G)  number of miles between mechanical service
 	calls.
 	       SECTION 14.  Section 452.455(i), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (i)  The number of collisions [accidents] per 100,000 miles
 	is computed by multiplying the annual number of collisions
 	[accidents] by 100,000 and dividing the product by the number of
 	miles for all service, including charter and nonrevenue service for
 	the same period.  In this subsection, "collision [accident]"
 	includes:
 	             (1)  a collision that involves an authority's revenue
 	vehicle, other than a lawfully parked revenue vehicle, and results
 	in property damage, injury, or death; and
 	             (2)  an operating incident resulting in the injury or
 	death of a person on board or boarding or alighting from an
 	authority's revenue vehicle.
 	       SECTION 15.  Section 460.110(b), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (b)  An authority may use contracts, rating plans, and risk
 	management programs designed to encourage collision [accident]
 	prevention.
 	       SECTION 16.  Section 463.065(b), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (b)  An authority may use contracts, rating plans, and risk
 	management programs designed to encourage collision [accident]
 	prevention.
 	       SECTION 17.  Section 521.025(c), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (c)  A person who violates this section commits an
 	offense.  An offense under this subsection is a misdemeanor
 	punishable by a fine not to exceed $200, except that:
 	             (1)  for a second conviction within one year after the
 	date of the first conviction, the offense is a misdemeanor
 	punishable by a fine of not less than $25 or more than $200;
 	             (2)  for a third or subsequent conviction within one
 	year after the date of the second conviction the offense is a
 	misdemeanor punishable by:
 	                   (A)  a fine of not less than $25 or more than $500;
 	                   (B)  confinement in the county jail for not less
 	than 72 hours or more than six months; or
 	                   (C)  both the fine and confinement; and
 	             (3)  if it is shown on the trial of the offense that at
 	the time of the offense the person was operating the motor vehicle
 	in violation of Section 601.191 and caused or was at fault in a
 	motor vehicle collision [accident] that resulted in serious bodily
 	injury to or the death of another person, an offense under this
 	section is a Class A misdemeanor.
 	       SECTION 18.  Section 521.042, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 521.042.  COLLISION [ACCIDENT] AND CONVICTION REPORTS;
 	INDIVIDUAL RECORDS. (a) Except as provided by this section, the
 	department shall record each collision [accident] report and
 	abstract of the court record of a conviction received by the
 	department under a law of this state.
 	       (b)  The records must enable the department to consider, on
 	receipt of a renewal application and at other suitable times, the
 	record of each license holder that shows any:
 	             (1)  conviction of that license holder; and
 	             (2)  traffic collision [accident] in which the license
 	holder has been involved.
 	       (c)  The record of a license holder who is employed as a peace
 	officer, fire fighter, or emergency medical services employee of
 	this state, a political subdivision of this state, or a special
 	purpose district may not include information relating to a traffic
 	collision [accident] that occurs while the peace officer, fire
 	fighter, or emergency medical services employee is driving an
 	official vehicle in the course and scope of the license holder's
 	official duties if:
 	             (1)  the traffic collision [accident] resulted in
 	damages to property of less than $1,000; or
 	             (2)  an investigation of the collision [accident] by a
 	peace officer, other than a peace officer involved in the collision
 	[accident], determines that the peace officer, fire fighter, or
 	emergency medical services employee involved in the collision
 	[accident] was not at fault.
 	       (d)  Before issuing or renewing a license, the department
 	shall examine the record of the applicant for information relating
 	to a conviction of a traffic violation or involvement in a traffic
 	collision [accident]. The department may not issue or renew a
 	license if the department determines that the issuance or renewal
 	of the license would be inimical to the public safety.
 	       (e)  The director may maintain records required under this
 	subchapter on microfilm or computer.
 	       SECTION 19.  The heading to Section 521.046, Transportation
 	Code, is amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 521.046.  DISCLOSURE OF COLLISION [ACCIDENT] AND
 	CONVICTION INFORMATION.
 	       SECTION 20.  Section 521.046(a), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  In addition to the information authorized to be released
 	under Section 521.045, on receipt of a written request and payment
 	of a $6 fee, the department may disclose that information and
 	information regarding each reported motor vehicle moving
 	violation, as defined by department rule, resulting in a traffic
 	law conviction and each motor vehicle collision [accident] in which
 	the individual received a citation, by date and location, within
 	the three years preceding the date of the request, to a person who:
 	             (1)  is eligible to receive the information under
 	Chapter 730; and
 	             (2)  submits to the department the individual's
 	driver's license number or the individual's full name and date of
 	birth.
 	       SECTION 21.  Section 521.047(b), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (b)  The department may disclose information as recorded in
 	department records that relates to:
 	             (1)  the individual's date of birth;
 	             (2)  the current license status of the individual;
 	             (3)  the individual's most recent address;
 	             (4)  the completion of an approved driver education
 	course by the individual;
 	             (5)  the fact of, but not the reason for, completion of
 	a driver safety course by the individual; and
 	             (6)  each of the individual's reported traffic law
 	violations and motor vehicle collisions [accidents], by date and
 	location.
 	       SECTION 22.  Section 521.049(e), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (e)  A driver's license record or personal identification
 	certificate record provided under Subsection (d)(1) may not include
 	information relating to an individual's social security number or
 	any collision [accident] or conviction information about an
 	individual.
 	       SECTION 23.  Section 521.060(a), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  The department shall maintain in its files a record of
 	the name, address, and telephone number of each individual
 	identified by the holder of a driver's license or personal
 	identification certificate as an individual the holder authorizes
 	to be contacted in the event that the holder is injured or dies in or
 	as a result of a vehicular collision [accident] or another
 	emergency situation.  In addition, the department shall maintain
 	in its files a record of any medical information described by
 	Section 521.125(a) that is provided to the department under
 	Subsection (c) or any health condition information that is
 	voluntarily provided to the department under Section 521.142(h).
 	       SECTION 24.  Section 521.292(a), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  The department shall suspend the person's license if the
 	department determines that the person:
 	             (1)  has operated a motor vehicle on a highway while the
 	person's license was suspended, canceled, disqualified, or
 	revoked, or without a license after an application for a license was
 	denied;
 	             (2)  is a habitually reckless or negligent operator of
 	a motor vehicle;
 	             (3)  is a habitual violator of the traffic laws;
 	             (4)  has permitted the unlawful or fraudulent use of
 	the person's license;
 	             (5)  has committed an offense in another state or
 	Canadian province that, if committed in this state, would be
 	grounds for suspension;
 	             (6)  has been convicted of two or more separate
 	offenses of a violation of a restriction imposed on the use of the
 	license;
 	             (7)  has been responsible as a driver for any collision
 	[accident] resulting in serious personal injury or serious property
 	damage;
 	             (8)  is under 18 years of age and has been convicted of
 	two or more moving violations committed within a 12-month period;
 	or
 	             (9)  has committed an offense under Section 545.421.
 	       SECTION 25.  Section 521.457(f-2), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (f-2)  An offense under this section is a Class A misdemeanor
 	if it is shown on the trial of the offense that at the time of the
 	offense the person was operating the motor vehicle in violation of
 	Section 601.191 and caused or was at fault in a motor vehicle
 	collision [accident] that resulted in serious bodily injury to or
 	the death of another person.
 	       SECTION 26.  Section 522.003(25), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	             (25)  "Serious traffic violation" means:
 	                   (A)  a conviction arising from the driving of a
 	motor vehicle, other than a parking, vehicle weight, or vehicle
 	defect violation, for:
 	                         (i)  excessive speeding, involving a single
 	charge of driving 15 miles per hour or more above the posted speed
 	limit;
 	                         (ii)  reckless driving, as defined by state
 	or local law;
 	                         (iii)  a violation of a state or local law
 	related to motor vehicle traffic control, including a law
 	regulating the operation of vehicles on highways, arising in
 	connection with a fatal collision [accident];
 	                         (iv)  improper or erratic traffic lane
 	change;
 	                         (v)  following the vehicle ahead too
 	closely; or
 	                         (vi)  a violation of Sections 522.011 or
 	522.042; or
 	                   (B)  a violation of Section 522.015.
 	       SECTION 27.  Section 522.081(b), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (b)  Except as provided by this subsection, this subsection
 	applies to a violation committed while operating any type of motor
 	vehicle, including a commercial motor vehicle.  A person who holds
 	a commercial driver's license or commercial learner's permit is
 	disqualified from driving a commercial motor vehicle for one year:
 	             (1)  if convicted of three violations of a law that
 	regulates the operation of a motor vehicle at a railroad grade
 	crossing that occur within a three-year period;
 	             (2)  on first conviction of:
 	                   (A)  driving a motor vehicle under the influence
 	of alcohol or a controlled substance, including a violation of
 	Section 49.04, 49.045, or 49.07, Penal Code;
 	                   (B)  leaving the scene of a collision [an
 	accident] involving a motor vehicle driven by the person;
 	                   (C)  using a motor vehicle in the commission of a
 	felony, other than a felony described by Subsection (d)(2);
 	                   (D)  causing the death of another person through
 	the negligent or criminal operation of a motor vehicle; or
 	                   (E)  driving a commercial motor vehicle while the
 	person's commercial driver's license or commercial learner's permit
 	is revoked, suspended, or canceled, or while the person is
 	disqualified from driving a commercial motor vehicle, for an action
 	or conduct that occurred while operating a commercial motor
 	vehicle;
 	             (3)  for refusing to submit to a test under Chapter 724
 	to determine the person's alcohol concentration or the presence in
 	the person's body of a controlled substance or drug while operating
 	a motor vehicle in a public place; or
 	             (4)  if an analysis of the person's blood, breath, or
 	urine under Chapter 522, 524, or 724 determines that the person:
 	                   (A)  had an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or more,
 	or that a controlled substance or drug was present in the person's
 	body, while operating a commercial motor vehicle in a public place;
 	or
 	                   (B)  had an alcohol concentration of 0.08 or more
 	while operating a motor vehicle, other than a commercial motor
 	vehicle, in a public place.
 	       SECTION 28.  Section 523.005(a), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  The licensing authority in the home state, for the
 	purpose of suspension, revocation, cancellation, denial,
 	disqualification, or limitation of the privilege to operate a motor
 	vehicle, shall give the same effect to the conduct reported
 	pursuant to Section 523.004 as it would if such conduct had occurred
 	in the home state in the case of conviction for:
 	             (1)  manslaughter or negligent homicide resulting from
 	the operation of a motor vehicle;
 	             (2)  driving a motor vehicle while under the influence
 	of alcoholic beverages or a narcotic to a degree which renders the
 	driver incapable of safely driving a motor vehicle;
 	             (3)  any felony in the commission of which a motor
 	vehicle is used; or
 	             (4)  failure to stop and render aid or information in
 	the event of a motor vehicle collision [accident] resulting in the
 	death or personal injury of another.
 	       SECTION 29.  Section 542.206, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 542.206.  EFFECT OF SPEED LIMITS IN A CIVIL ACTION. A
 	provision of this subtitle declaring a maximum or minimum speed
 	limit does not relieve the plaintiff in a civil action from the
 	burden of proving negligence of the defendant as the proximate
 	cause of a collision [an accident].
 	       SECTION 30.  Section 542.4045, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 542.4045.  PENALTIES FOR FAILURE TO YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY
 	OFFENSE RESULTING IN COLLISION [ACCIDENT]. If it is shown on the
 	trial of an offense under this subtitle in which an element is the
 	failure by the operator of a vehicle to yield the right-of-way to
 	another vehicle that a collision [an accident] resulted from the
 	operator's failure to yield the right-of-way:
 	             (1)  the offense is punishable by a fine of not less
 	than $500 or more than $2,000, if a person other than the operator
 	of the vehicle suffered bodily injury, as defined by Section 1.07,
 	Penal Code, in the collision [accident]; and
 	             (2)  the offense is punishable by a fine of not less
 	than $1,000 or more than $4,000, if a person other than the operator
 	of the vehicle suffered serious bodily injury, as defined by
 	Section 1.07, Penal Code, in the collision [accident].
 	       SECTION 31.  Section 543.002(a), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  A person arrested for a violation of this subtitle
 	punishable as a misdemeanor shall be immediately taken before a
 	magistrate if:
 	             (1)  the person is arrested on a charge of failure to
 	stop in the event of a collision [an accident] causing damage to
 	property; or
 	             (2)  the person demands an immediate appearance before
 	a magistrate or refuses to make a written promise to appear in court
 	as provided by this subchapter.
 	       SECTION 32.  Section 543.011(c), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (c)  The law enforcement agency shall:
 	             (1)  as soon as practicable contact the United States
 	Department of State to verify the person's status and immunity, if
 	any; and
 	             (2)  not later than the fifth working day after the date
 	of the stop or issuance of the notice to appear, send to the Bureau
 	of Diplomatic Security and the Office of Foreign Missions of the
 	United States Department of State the following:
 	                   (A)  a copy of any notice to appear issued to the
 	person and any collision [accident] report prepared; or
 	                   (B)  if a notice to appear was not issued and a
 	collision [an accident] report was not prepared, a written report
 	of the incident.
 	       SECTION 33.  Section 545.356(d), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (d)  The governing body of a municipality that declares a
 	lower speed limit on a highway or part of a highway under Subsection
 	(b-1) or (b-3), not later than February 1 of each year, shall
 	publish on its Internet website and submit to the department a
 	report that compares for each of the two previous calendar years:
 	             (1)  the number of traffic citations issued by peace
 	officers of the municipality and the alleged speed of the vehicles,
 	for speed limit violations on the highway or part of the highway;
 	             (2)  the number of warning citations issued by peace
 	officers of the municipality on the highway or part of the highway;
 	and
 	             (3)  the number of vehicular collisions [accidents]
 	that resulted in injury or death and were attributable to speed
 	limit violations on the highway or part of the highway.
 	       SECTION 34.  Section 545.3561, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 545.3561.  AUTHORITY OF MUNICIPALITY OR COUNTY TO
 	TEMPORARILY LOWER SPEED LIMIT AT VEHICULAR COLLISION [ACCIDENT]
 	RECONSTRUCTION SITE. (a)  The governing body of a municipality by
 	ordinance may give a designated official with transportation
 	engineering experience establishing speed limits discretion to
 	temporarily lower a prima facie speed limit for a highway or part of
 	a highway in the municipality, including a highway of the state
 	highway system, at the site of an investigation using vehicular
 	collision [accident] reconstruction.
 	       (b)  A county commissioners court by order may give a
 	designated official with transportation engineering experience
 	establishing speed limits discretion to temporarily lower prima
 	facie speed limits for a county road or highway outside the
 	boundaries of a municipality at the site of an investigation using
 	vehicular collision [accident] reconstruction.  The authority
 	granted under this subsection does not include a road or highway in
 	the state highway system.
 	       (c)  The Texas Department of Transportation shall develop
 	safety guidelines for the use of vehicular collision [accident]
 	reconstruction in investigations.  A municipality, county, or
 	designated official shall comply with the guidelines.
 	       (d)  A designated official may temporarily lower prima facie
 	speed limits without the approval of or permission from the Texas
 	Department of Transportation.  A designated official who intends
 	to temporarily lower a prima facie speed limit at the site of an
 	investigation using vehicular collision [accident] reconstruction
 	shall, at least 48 hours before temporary speed limit signs are
 	posted for the vehicular collision [accident] reconstruction site,
 	provide to the Texas Department of Transportation notice that
 	includes:
 	             (1)  the date and time of the collision [accident]
 	reconstruction;
 	             (2)  the location of the collision [accident]
 	reconstruction site;
 	             (3)  the entities involved at the site;
 	             (4)  the general size of the area affected by the site;
 	and
 	             (5)  an estimate of how long the site will be used for
 	the collision [accident] reconstruction.
 	       (e)  A temporary speed limit established under this section:
 	             (1)  is a prima facie prudent and reasonable speed
 	limit enforceable in the same manner as other prima facie speed
 	limits established under other provisions of this subchapter; and
 	             (2)  supersedes any other established speed limit that
 	would permit a person to operate a motor vehicle at a higher rate of
 	speed.
 	       (f)  A designated official who temporarily lowers a speed
 	limit shall:
 	             (1)  place and maintain at the vehicular collision
 	[accident] reconstruction site temporary speed limit signs that
 	conform to the manual and specifications adopted under Section
 	544.001;
 	             (2)  temporarily conceal all other signs on the highway
 	segment affected by the vehicular collision [accident]
 	reconstruction site that give notice of a speed limit that would
 	permit a person to operate a motor vehicle at a higher rate of
 	speed; and
 	             (3)  remove all temporary speed limit signs placed
 	under Subdivision (1) and concealments of other signs placed under
 	Subdivision (2) when the official finds that the vehicular
 	collision [accident] reconstruction is complete and all equipment
 	is removed from the vehicular collision [accident] reconstruction
 	site.
 	       (g)  A temporary speed limit established under this section
 	is effective when a designated official places temporary speed
 	limit signs and conceals other signs that would permit a person to
 	operate a motor vehicle at a higher rate of speed as required under
 	Subsection (f).
 	       (h)  A temporary speed limit established under this section
 	is effective until the designated official under Subsection (a) or
 	(b):
 	             (1)  finds that the vehicular collision [accident]
 	reconstruction is complete; and
 	             (2)  removes all temporary signs, concealments, and
 	equipment used at the vehicular collision [accident]
 	reconstruction site.
 	       (i)  If a designated official does not comply with the
 	requirements of Subsection (f)(3) for a vehicular collision
 	[accident] reconstruction on a state highway associated with the
 	reconstruction, the Texas Department of Transportation may remove
 	signs and concealments.
 	       SECTION 35.  Section 545.4121(b), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (b)  It is a defense to prosecution of an offense to which
 	this section applies that the defendant provides to the court
 	evidence satisfactory to the court that:
 	             (1)  at the time of the offense:
 	                   (A)  the defendant was not arrested or issued a
 	citation for violation of any other offense;
 	                   (B)  the defendant did not possess a child
 	passenger safety seat system in the vehicle; and
 	                   (C)  the vehicle the defendant was operating was
 	not involved in a collision [an accident]; and
 	             (2)  subsequent to the time of the offense,
 	the  defendant obtained an appropriate child passenger safety seat
 	system for each child required to be secured in a child passenger
 	safety seat system under Section 545.412(a).
 	       SECTION 36.  Section 545.420(i), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (i)  This subsection applies only to a motor vehicle used in
 	the commission of an offense under this section that results in a
 	collision [an accident] with property damage or personal injury.  A
 	peace officer shall require the vehicle to be taken to the nearest
 	licensed vehicle storage facility unless the vehicle is seized as
 	evidence, in which case the vehicle may be taken to a storage
 	facility as designated by the peace officer
 	involved.  Notwithstanding Article 18.23, Code of Criminal
 	Procedure, the owner of a motor vehicle that is removed or stored
 	under this subsection is liable for all removal and storage fees
 	incurred and is not entitled to take possession of the vehicle until
 	those fees are paid.
 	       SECTION 37.  The heading to Section 545.428, Transportation
 	Code, is amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 545.428.  MOTOR VEHICLE COLLISION [ACCIDENT] INVOLVING
 	PEDESTRIAN OR OTHER VULNERABLE ROAD USER WITHIN AREA OF CROSSWALK;
 	OFFENSE.
 	       SECTION 38.  Section 545.455, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 545.455.  DUTIES FOLLOWING COLLISION [ACCIDENT]
 	INVOLVING AUTOMATED MOTOR VEHICLE.  In the event of a collision [an
 	accident] involving an automated motor vehicle, the automated motor
 	vehicle or any human operator of the automated motor vehicle shall
 	comply with Chapter 550.
 	       SECTION 39.  Section 547.305(d), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (d)  A vehicle may be equipped with alternately flashing
 	lighting equipment described by Section 547.701 or 547.702 only if
 	the vehicle is:
 	             (1)  a school bus;
 	             (2)  an authorized emergency vehicle;
 	             (3)  a church bus that has the words "church bus"
 	printed on the front and rear of the bus so as to be clearly
 	discernable to other vehicle operators;
 	             (4)  a tow truck while under the direction of a law
 	enforcement officer at the scene of a collision [an accident] or
 	while hooking up to a disabled vehicle on a roadway; or
 	             (5)  a tow truck with a mounted light bar which has turn
 	signals and stop lamps in addition to those required by Sections
 	547.322, 547.323, and 547.324, Transportation Code.
 	       SECTION 40.  Section 547.615(a)(2), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	             (2)  "Recording device" means a feature that is
 	installed by the manufacturer in a motor vehicle and that does any
 	of the following for the purpose of retrieving information from the
 	vehicle after a collision [an accident] in which the vehicle has
 	been involved:
 	                   (A)  records the speed and direction the vehicle
 	is traveling;
 	                   (B)  records vehicle location data;
 	                   (C)  records steering performance;
 	                   (D)  records brake performance, including
 	information on whether brakes were applied before a collision [an
 	accident];
 	                   (E)  records the driver's safety belt status; or
 	                   (F)  transmits information concerning the
 	collision [accident] to a central communications system when the
 	collision [accident] occurs.
 	       SECTION 41.  Section 547.615(c), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (c)  Information recorded or transmitted by a recording
 	device may not be retrieved by a person other than the owner of the
 	motor vehicle in which the recording device is installed except:
 	             (1)  on court order;
 	             (2)  with the consent of the owner for any purpose,
 	including for the purpose of diagnosing, servicing, or repairing
 	the motor vehicle;
 	             (3)  for the purpose of improving motor vehicle safety,
 	including for medical research on the human body's reaction to
 	motor vehicle collisions [accidents], if the identity of the owner
 	or driver of the vehicle is not disclosed in connection with the
 	retrieved information; or
 	             (4)  for the purpose of determining the need for or
 	facilitating emergency medical response in the event of a motor
 	vehicle collision [accident].
 	       SECTION 42.  Section 548.053(b), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (b)  A vehicle that is inspected and is subsequently involved
 	in a collision or other incident [an accident] affecting the safe
 	operation of an item of inspection must be reinspected following
 	repair. The reinspection must be at an inspection station and shall
 	be treated and charged as an initial inspection.
 	       SECTION 43.  The heading to Chapter 550, Transportation
 	Code, is amended to read as follows:
 	CHAPTER 550.  COLLISIONS [ACCIDENTS] AND COLLISION [ACCIDENT]
 	REPORTS
 	       SECTION 44.  The heading to Subchapter B, Chapter 550,
 	Transportation Code, is amended to read as follows:
 	SUBCHAPTER B.  DUTIES FOLLOWING COLLISION [ACCIDENT]
 	       SECTION 45.  Section 550.021, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 550.021.  COLLISION [ACCIDENT] INVOLVING PERSONAL
 	INJURY OR DEATH. (a)  The operator of a vehicle involved in a
 	collision [an accident] that results or is reasonably likely to
 	result in injury to or death of a person shall:
 	             (1)  immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of the
 	collision [accident] or as close to the scene as possible;
 	             (2)  immediately return to the scene of the collision
 	[accident] if the vehicle is not stopped at the scene of the
 	collision [accident];
 	             (3)  immediately determine whether a person is involved
 	in the collision [accident], and if a person is involved in the
 	collision [accident], whether that person requires aid; and
 	             (4)  remain at the scene of the collision [accident]
 	until the operator complies with the requirements of Section
 	550.023.
 	       (b)  An operator of a vehicle required to stop the vehicle by
 	Subsection (a) shall do so without obstructing traffic more than is
 	necessary.
 	       (c)  A person commits an offense if the person does not stop
 	or does not comply with the requirements of this section.  An
 	offense under this section:
 	             (1)  involving a collision [an accident] resulting in:
 	                   (A)  death of a person is a felony of the second
 	degree; or
 	                   (B)  serious bodily injury, as defined by Section
 	1.07, Penal Code, to a person is a felony of the third degree; and
 	             (2)  involving a collision [an accident] resulting in
 	injury to which Subdivision (1) does not apply is punishable by:
 	                   (A)  imprisonment in the Texas Department of
 	Criminal Justice for not more than five years or confinement in the
 	county jail for not more than one year;
 	                   (B)  a fine not to exceed $5,000; or
 	                   (C)  both the fine and the imprisonment or
 	confinement.
 	       SECTION 46.  The heading to Section 550.022, Transportation
 	Code, is amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 550.022.  COLLISION [ACCIDENT] INVOLVING DAMAGE TO
 	VEHICLE.
 	       SECTION 47.  Sections 550.022(a) and (b), Transportation
 	Code, are amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  Except as provided by Subsection (b), the operator of a
 	vehicle involved in a collision [an accident] resulting only in
 	damage to a vehicle that is driven or attended by a person shall:
 	             (1)  immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of the
 	collision [accident] or as close as possible to the scene of the
 	collision [accident] without obstructing traffic more than is
 	necessary;
 	             (2)  immediately return to the scene of the collision
 	[accident] if the vehicle is not stopped at the scene of the
 	collision [accident]; and
 	             (3)  remain at the scene of the collision [accident]
 	until the operator complies with the requirements of Section
 	550.023.
 	       (b)  If a collision [an accident] occurs on a main lane,
 	ramp, shoulder, median, or adjacent area of a freeway in a
 	metropolitan area and each vehicle involved can be normally and
 	safely driven, each operator shall move the operator's vehicle as
 	soon as possible to a designated collision [accident] investigation
 	site, if available, a location on the frontage road, the nearest
 	suitable cross street, or other suitable location to complete the
 	requirements of Section 550.023 and minimize interference with
 	freeway traffic.
 	       SECTION 48.  Section 550.023, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 550.023.  DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID. The
 	operator of a vehicle involved in a collision [an accident]
 	resulting in the injury or death of a person or damage to a vehicle
 	that is driven or attended by a person shall:
 	             (1)  give the operator's name and address, the
 	registration number of the vehicle the operator was driving, and
 	the name of the operator's motor vehicle liability insurer to any
 	person injured or the operator or occupant of or person attending a
 	vehicle involved in the collision;
 	             (2)  if requested and available, show the operator's
 	driver's license to a person described by Subdivision (1); and
 	             (3)  provide any person injured in the collision
 	[accident] reasonable assistance, including transporting or making
 	arrangements for transporting the person to a physician or hospital
 	for medical treatment if it is apparent that treatment is
 	necessary, or if the injured person requests the transportation.
 	       SECTION 49.  Section 550.025(a), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  The operator of a vehicle involved in a collision [an
 	accident] resulting only in damage to a structure adjacent to a
 	highway or a fixture or landscaping legally on or adjacent to a
 	highway shall:
 	             (1)  take reasonable steps to locate and notify the
 	owner or person in charge of the property of the collision
 	[accident] and of the operator's name and address and the
 	registration number of the vehicle the operator was driving; and
 	             (2)  if requested and available, show the operator's
 	driver's license to the owner or person in charge of the property.
 	       SECTION 50.  Section 550.026, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 550.026.  IMMEDIATE REPORT OF COLLISION [ACCIDENT].
 	(a) The operator of a vehicle involved in a collision [an accident]
 	resulting in injury to or death of a person or damage to a vehicle to
 	the extent that it cannot be normally and safely driven shall
 	immediately by the quickest means of communication give notice of
 	the collision [accident] to the:
 	             (1)  local police department if the collision
 	[accident] occurred in a municipality;
 	             (2)  local police department or the sheriff's office if
 	the collision [accident] occurred not more than 100 feet outside
 	the limits of a municipality; or
 	             (3)  sheriff's office or the nearest office of the
 	department if the collision [accident] is not required to be
 	reported under Subdivision (1) or (2).
 	       (b)  If a section of road is within 100 feet of the limits of
 	more than one municipality, the municipalities may agree regarding
 	the maintenance of reports made under Subsection (a)(2). A county
 	may agree with municipalities in the county regarding the
 	maintenance of reports made under Subsection (a)(2). An agreement
 	under this subsection does not affect the duty to report a collision
 	[an accident] under Subsection (a).
 	       SECTION 51.  The heading to Subchapter C, Chapter 550,
 	Transportation Code, is amended to read as follows:
 	SUBCHAPTER C.  INVESTIGATION OF COLLISION [ACCIDENT]
 	       SECTION 52.  Section 550.041(a), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  A peace officer who is notified of a motor vehicle
 	collision [accident] resulting in injury to or death of a person or
 	property damage to an apparent extent of at least $1,000 may
 	investigate the collision [accident] and file justifiable charges
 	relating to the collision [accident] without regard to whether the
 	collision [accident] occurred on property to which this chapter
 	applies.
 	       SECTION 53.  The heading to Subchapter D, Chapter 550,
 	Transportation Code, is amended to read as follows:
 	SUBCHAPTER D.  WRITTEN COLLISION [ACCIDENT] REPORT
 	       SECTION 54.  Section 550.062, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 550.062.  OFFICER'S COLLISION [ACCIDENT] REPORT. (a)
 	A law enforcement officer who in the regular course of duty
 	investigates a motor vehicle collision [accident] shall make a
 	written report of the collision [accident] if the collision
 	[accident] resulted in injury to or the death of a person or damage
 	to the property of any one person to the apparent extent of $1,000
 	or more.
 	       (b)  The report required by Subsection (a) must be filed
 	electronically with the department not later than the 10th day
 	after the date of the collision [accident].
 	       (b-1)  If the motor vehicle collision [accident] involved a
 	combination of vehicles operating under a permit issued under
 	Section 623.402, the report required by Subsection (a) must include
 	the weight and the number of axles of the vehicle combination.
 	       (c)  This section applies without regard to whether the
 	officer investigates the collision [accident] at the location of
 	the collision [accident] and immediately after the collision
 	[accident] or afterwards by interviewing those involved in the
 	collision [accident] or witnesses to the collision [accident].
 	       SECTION 55.  Section 550.063, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 550.063.  REPORT ON APPROPRIATE FORM. The form of all
 	written collision [accident] reports must be approved by the
 	department and the Department of Public Safety. A person who is
 	required to file a written collision [accident] report shall report
 	on the appropriate form and shall disclose all information required
 	by the form unless the information is not available.
 	       SECTION 56.  Section 550.064, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 550.064.  COLLISION [ACCIDENT] REPORT FORMS. (a) The
 	department shall prepare and when requested supply to police
 	departments, coroners, sheriffs, garages, and other suitable
 	agencies or individuals the collision [accident] report forms
 	appropriate for the persons required to make a report and
 	appropriate for the purposes to be served by those reports.
 	       (b)  A collision [An accident] report form prepared by the
 	department must:
 	             (1)  require sufficiently detailed information to
 	disclose the cause and conditions of and the persons and vehicles
 	involved in a collision [an accident] if the form is for the report
 	to be made by a person investigating the collision [accident];
 	             (2)  include a way to designate and identify a peace
 	officer, firefighter, or emergency medical services employee who is
 	involved in a collision [an accident] while driving a law
 	enforcement vehicle, fire department vehicle, or emergency medical
 	services vehicle while performing the person's duties;
 	             (3)  require a statement by a person described by
 	Subdivision (2) as to the nature of the collision [accident]; and
 	             (4)  include a way to designate whether an individual
 	involved in a collision [an accident] wants to be contacted by a
 	person seeking to obtain employment as a professional described by
 	Section 38.01(12), Penal Code.
 	       SECTION 57.  Section 550.065, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 550.065.  RELEASE OF CERTAIN INFORMATION RELATING TO
 	COLLISIONS [ACCIDENTS]. (a)  This section applies only to the
 	following information that is held by the department or another
 	governmental entity:
 	             (1)  a written report of a collision [an accident]
 	required under:
 	                   (A)  Section 550.062; or
 	                   (B)  former Section 550.061 or 601.004 before
 	September 1, 2017; or
 	             (2)  collision [accident] report information compiled
 	under Section 201.806.
 	       (b)  Except as provided by Subsection (c), (c-1), or (e), the
 	information is privileged and for the confidential use of:
 	             (1)  the department; and
 	             (2)  an agency of the United States, this state, or a
 	local government of this state that has use for the information for
 	collision [accident] prevention purposes.
 	       (c)  On written request and payment of any required fee, the
 	department or the governmental entity shall release the information
 	to:
 	             (1)  an entity described by Subsection (b);
 	             (2)  the law enforcement agency that employs the peace
 	officer who investigated the collision [accident] and sent the
 	information to the department, including an agent of the law
 	enforcement agency authorized by contract to obtain the
 	information;
 	             (3)  the court in which a case involving a person
 	involved in the collision [accident] is pending if the report is
 	subpoenaed; or
 	             (4)  any person directly concerned in the collision
 	[accident] or having a proper interest therein, including:
 	                   (A)  any person involved in the collision
 	[accident];
 	                   (B)  the authorized representative of any person
 	involved in the collision [accident];
 	                   (C)  a driver involved in the collision
 	[accident];
 	                   (D)  an employer, parent, or legal guardian of a
 	driver involved in the collision [accident];
 	                   (E)  the owner of a vehicle or property damaged in
 	the collision [accident];
 	                   (F)  a person who has established financial
 	responsibility for a vehicle involved in the collision [accident]
 	in a manner described by Section 601.051, including a policyholder
 	of a motor vehicle liability insurance policy covering the vehicle;
 	                   (G)  an insurance company that issued an insurance
 	policy covering a vehicle involved in the collision [accident];
 	                   (H)  an insurance company that issued a policy
 	covering any person involved in the collision [accident];
 	                   (I)  a person under contract to provide claims or
 	underwriting information to a person described by Paragraph (F),
 	(G), or (H);
 	                   (J)  a radio or television station that holds a
 	license issued by the Federal Communications Commission;
 	                   (K)  a newspaper that is:
 	                         (i)  a free newspaper of general circulation
 	or qualified under Section 2051.044, Government Code, to publish
 	legal notices;
 	                         (ii)  published at least once a week; and
 	                         (iii)  available and of interest to the
 	general public in connection with the dissemination of news; or
 	                   (L)  any person who may sue because of death
 	resulting from the collision [accident].
 	       (c-1)  On receiving information to which this section
 	applies, the department or the governmental entity that receives
 	the information shall create a redacted collision [accident] report
 	that may be requested by any person. The redacted collision
 	[accident] report may not include the items of information
 	described by Subsection (f)(2). A report released under this
 	subsection is not considered personal information under Section
 	730.003.
 	       (d)  The fee for a copy of the collision [accident] report is
 	$6.  The copy may be certified by the department or the
 	governmental entity for an additional fee of $2.  The department or
 	the governmental entity may issue a certification that no report or
 	information is on file for a fee of $6.
 	       (e)  In addition to the information required to be released
 	under Subsection (c), the department may release:
 	             (1)  collision [accident] report information compiled
 	under Section 201.806; or
 	             (2)  a vehicle identification number and specific
 	collision [accident] information relating to that vehicle.
 	       (f)  The department when releasing information under
 	Subsection (c-1) or (e):
 	             (1)  may not release personal information, as defined
 	by Section 730.003; and
 	             (2)  shall withhold or redact the following items:
 	                   (A)  the first, middle, and last name of any
 	person listed in a collision [an accident] report, including a
 	vehicle driver, occupant, owner, or lessee, a bicyclist, a
 	pedestrian, or a property owner;
 	                   (B)  the number of any driver's license,
 	commercial driver's license, or personal identification
 	certificate issued to any person listed in a collision [an
 	accident] report;
 	                   (C)  the date of birth, other than the year, of any
 	person listed in a collision [an accident] report;
 	                   (D)  the address, other than zip code, and
 	telephone number of any person listed in a collision [an accident]
 	report;
 	                   (E)  the license plate number of any vehicle
 	listed in a collision [an accident] report;
 	                   (F)  the name of any insurance company listed as a
 	provider of financial responsibility for a vehicle listed in a
 	collision [an accident] report;
 	                   (G)  the number of any insurance policy issued by
 	an insurance company listed as a provider of financial
 	responsibility;
 	                   (H)  the date the peace officer who investigated
 	the collision [accident] was notified of the collision [accident];
 	                   (I)  the date the investigating peace officer
 	arrived at the collision [accident] site;
 	                   (J)  the badge number or identification number of
 	the investigating officer;
 	                   (K)  the date on which any person who died as a
 	result of the collision [accident] died;
 	                   (L)  the date of any commercial motor vehicle
 	report; and
 	                   (M)  the place where any person injured or killed
 	in a collision [an accident] was taken and the person or entity that
 	provided the transportation.
 	       (g)  The amount that may be charged for information provided
 	under Subsection (e) shall be calculated in the manner specified by
 	Chapter 552, Government Code, for public information provided by a
 	governmental body under that chapter.
 	       SECTION 58.  Section 550.066, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 550.066.  ADMISSIBILITY OF CERTAIN COLLISION
 	[ACCIDENT] REPORT INFORMATION. An individual's response to the
 	information requested on a collision [an accident] report form as
 	provided by Section 550.064(b)(4) is not admissible evidence in a
 	civil trial.
 	       SECTION 59.  Section 550.067, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 550.067.  MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE COLLISION
 	[ACCIDENT] REPORTS. (a) A municipality by ordinance may require
 	the operator of a vehicle involved in a collision [an accident] to
 	file with a designated municipal department:
 	             (1)  a report of the collision [accident], if the
 	collision [accident] results in injury to or the death of a person
 	or the apparent total property damage is $25 or more; or
 	             (2)  a copy of a report required by this chapter to be
 	filed with the department.
 	       (b)  A report filed under Subsection (a) is for the
 	confidential use of the municipal department and subject to the
 	provisions of Section 550.065.
 	       (c)  A municipality by ordinance may require the person in
 	charge of a garage or repair shop where a motor vehicle is brought
 	if the vehicle shows evidence of having been involved in a collision
 	[an accident] described by Section 550.062(a) or shows evidence of
 	having been struck by a bullet to report to a department of the
 	municipality within 24 hours after the garage or repair shop
 	receives the motor vehicle, giving the engine number, registration
 	number, and the name and address of the owner or operator of the
 	vehicle.
 	       SECTION 60.  Section 550.068, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 550.068.  CHANGING COLLISION [ACCIDENT] REPORT.
 	(a)  Except as provided by Subsection (b), a change in or a
 	modification of a written report of a motor vehicle collision
 	[accident] prepared by a peace officer that alters a material fact
 	in the report may be made only by the peace officer who prepared the
 	report.
 	       (b)  A change in or a modification of the written report of
 	the collision [accident] may be made by a person other than the
 	peace officer if:
 	             (1)  the change is made by a written supplement to the
 	report; and
 	             (2)  the written supplement clearly indicates the name
 	of the person who originated the change.
 	       SECTION 61.  Sections 550.081(b) and (c), Transportation
 	Code, are amended to read as follows:
 	       (b)  A medical examiner or justice of the peace acting as
 	coroner in a county that does not have a medical examiner's office
 	or that is not part of a medical examiner's district shall submit a
 	report in writing to the department of the death of a person that
 	was the result of a traffic collision [accident] or bridge
 	collapse:
 	             (1)  to which this chapter applies; and
 	             (2)  that occurred within the jurisdiction of the
 	medical examiner or justice of the peace in the preceding calendar
 	quarter.
 	       (c)  The report must be submitted before the 11th day of each
 	calendar month and include:
 	             (1)  the name of the deceased and a statement as to
 	whether the deceased was:
 	                   (A)  the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle
 	[involved in the accident]; or
 	                   (B)  a pedestrian or other nonoccupant of a
 	vehicle;
 	             (2)  the date of the collision [accident] and the name
 	of the county in which the collision [accident] occurred, and, if a
 	bridge collapse, the location of the bridge in that county;
 	             (3)  the name of any laboratory, medical examiner's
 	office, or other facility that conducted toxicological testing
 	relative to the deceased; and
 	             (4)  the results of any toxicological testing that was
 	conducted.
 	       SECTION 62.  Section 601.002(3), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	             (3)  "Financial responsibility" means the ability to
 	respond in damages for liability for a collision [an accident]
 	that:
 	                   (A)  occurs after the effective date of the
 	document evidencing the establishment of the financial
 	responsibility; and
 	                   (B)  arises out of the ownership, maintenance, or
 	use of a motor vehicle.
 	       SECTION 63.  Section 601.003(b), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (b)  For purposes of this chapter, a judgment is considered
 	to be satisfied as to the appropriate part of the judgment set out
 	by this subsection if:
 	             (1)  the total amount credited on one or more judgments
 	for bodily injury to or death of one person resulting from one
 	collision [accident] equals or exceeds the amount required under
 	Section 601.072(a-1)(1) [601.072(a)(1)] to establish financial
 	responsibility;
 	             (2)  the total amount credited on one or more judgments
 	for bodily injury to or death of two or more persons resulting from
 	one collision [accident] equals or exceeds the amount required
 	under Section 601.072(a-1)(2) [601.072(a)(2)] to establish
 	financial responsibility; or
 	             (3)  the total amount credited on one or more judgments
 	for damage to or destruction of property of another resulting from
 	one collision [accident] equals or exceeds the amount required
 	under Section 601.072(a-1)(3) [601.072(a)(3)] to establish
 	financial responsibility.
 	       SECTION 64.  Section 601.006, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 601.006.  APPLICABILITY TO CERTAIN OWNERS AND
 	OPERATORS. If an owner or operator of a motor vehicle involved in a
 	collision [an accident] in this state does not have a driver's
 	license or vehicle registration or is a nonresident, the person may
 	not be issued a driver's license or registration until the person
 	has complied with this chapter to the same extent that would be
 	necessary if, at the time of the collision [accident], the person
 	had a driver's license or registration.
 	       SECTION 65.  Sections 601.009(b) and (c), Transportation
 	Code, are amended to read as follows:
 	       (b)  Except as provided by Subsection (c), the department
 	shall suspend the resident's driver's license and vehicle
 	registrations if the evidence shows that the resident's operating
 	privilege was suspended in the other state or the province for
 	violation of a financial responsibility law under circumstances
 	that would require the department to suspend a nonresident's
 	operating privilege had the collision [accident] occurred in this
 	state.
 	       (c)  The department may not suspend the resident's driver's
 	license and registration if the alleged failure to comply is based
 	on the failure of the resident's insurance company or surety
 	company to:
 	             (1)  obtain authorization to write motor vehicle
 	liability insurance in the other state or the province; or
 	             (2)  execute a power of attorney directing the
 	appropriate official in the other state or the province to accept on
 	the company's behalf service of notice or process in an action under
 	the policy arising out of a collision [an accident].
 	       SECTION 66.  Section 601.053(a), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  As a condition of operating in this state a motor
 	vehicle to which Section 601.051 applies, the operator of the
 	vehicle on request shall provide to a peace officer, as defined by
 	Article 2.12, Code of Criminal Procedure, or a person involved in a
 	collision [an accident] with the operator evidence of financial
 	responsibility by exhibiting:
 	             (1)  a motor vehicle liability insurance policy
 	covering the vehicle that satisfies Subchapter D or a photocopy of
 	the policy;
 	             (2)  a standard proof of motor vehicle liability
 	insurance form prescribed by the Texas Department of Insurance
 	under Section 601.081 and issued by a liability insurer for the
 	motor vehicle;
 	             (2-a)  an image displayed on a wireless communication
 	device that includes the information required by Section 601.081 as
 	provided by a liability insurer;
 	             (3)  an insurance binder that confirms the operator is
 	in compliance with this chapter;
 	             (4)  a surety bond certificate issued under Section
 	601.121;
 	             (5)  a certificate of a deposit with the comptroller
 	covering the vehicle issued under Section 601.122;
 	             (6)  a copy of a certificate of a deposit with the
 	appropriate county judge covering the vehicle issued under Section
 	601.123; or
 	             (7)  a certificate of self-insurance covering the
 	vehicle issued under Section 601.124 or a photocopy of the
 	certificate.
 	       SECTION 67.  Section 601.056(e), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (e)  The department may not act under Subsection (a)(1) or
 	(2) if:
 	             (1)  an action for damages on a liability covered by the
 	evidence of financial responsibility is pending;
 	             (2)  a judgment for damages on a liability covered by
 	the evidence of financial responsibility is not satisfied; or
 	             (3)  the person for whom the bond has been filed or for
 	whom money or securities have been deposited has, within the two
 	years preceding the request for cancellation or return of the
 	evidence of financial responsibility, been involved as an operator
 	or owner in a motor vehicle collision [accident] resulting in
 	bodily injury to, or property damage to the property of, another
 	person.
 	       SECTION 68.  Sections 601.072(a-1) and (b), Transportation
 	Code, are amended to read as follows:
 	       (a-1)  Effective January 1, 2011, the minimum amounts of
 	motor vehicle liability insurance coverage required to establish
 	financial responsibility under this chapter are:
 	             (1)  $30,000 for bodily injury to or death of one person
 	in one collision [accident];
 	             (2)  $60,000 for bodily injury to or death of two or
 	more persons in one collision [accident], subject to the amount
 	provided by Subdivision (1) for bodily injury to or death of one of
 	the persons; and
 	             (3)  $25,000 for damage to or destruction of property
 	of others in one collision [accident].
 	       (b)  The coverage required under this section may exclude,
 	with respect to one collision [accident]:
 	             (1)  the first $250 of liability for bodily injury to or
 	death of one person;
 	             (2)  the first $500 of liability for bodily injury to or
 	death of two or more persons, subject to the amount provided by
 	Subdivision (1) for bodily injury to or death of one of the persons;
 	and
 	             (3)  the first $250 of liability for property damage to
 	or destruction of property of others.
 	       SECTION 69.  Section 601.084(c), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (c)  The department shall accept the certificate of an
 	insurer not authorized to transact business in this state if the
 	certificate otherwise complies with this chapter and the insurance
 	company:
 	             (1)  executes a power of attorney authorizing the
 	department to accept on its behalf service of notice or process in
 	an action arising out of a motor vehicle collision [accident] in
 	this state; and
 	             (2)  agrees in writing that its policies will be
 	treated as conforming to the laws of this state relating to the
 	terms of a motor vehicle liability insurance policy.
 	       SECTION 70.  Section 601.086, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 601.086.  RESPONSE OF INSURANCE COMPANY IF POLICY NOT
 	IN EFFECT. An insurance company that is notified by the department
 	of a collision [an accident] in connection with which an owner or
 	operator has reported a motor vehicle liability insurance policy
 	with the company shall advise the department if a policy is not in
 	effect as reported.
 	       SECTION 71.  Section 601.124(c), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (c)  The self-insurer must supplement the certificate with
 	an agreement that, for collisions [accidents] occurring while the
 	certificate is in force, the self-insurer will pay the same
 	judgments in the same amounts as an insurer would be obligated to
 	pay under an owner's motor vehicle liability insurance policy
 	issued to the self-insurer if such policy were issued.
 	       SECTION 72.  The heading to Subchapter F, Chapter 601,
 	Transportation Code, is amended to read as follows:
 	SUBCHAPTER F.  SECURITY FOLLOWING COLLISION [ACCIDENT]
 	       SECTION 73.  Section 601.151, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 601.151.  APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER. (a) This
 	subchapter applies only to a motor vehicle collision [accident] in
 	this state that results in bodily injury or death or in damage to
 	the property of one person of at least $1,000.
 	       (b)  This subchapter does not apply to:
 	             (1)  an owner or operator who has in effect at the time
 	of the collision [accident] a motor vehicle liability insurance
 	policy that covers the motor vehicle involved in the collision
 	[accident];
 	             (2)  an operator who is not the owner of the motor
 	vehicle, if a motor vehicle liability insurance policy or bond for
 	the operation of a motor vehicle the person does not own is in
 	effect at the time of the collision [accident];
 	             (3)  an owner or operator whose liability for damages
 	resulting from the collision [accident], in the judgment of the
 	department, is covered by another liability insurance policy or
 	bond;
 	             (4)  an owner or operator, if there was not bodily
 	injury to or damage of the property of a person other than the owner
 	or operator;
 	             (5)  the owner or operator of a motor vehicle that at
 	the time of the collision [accident] was legally parked or legally
 	stopped at a traffic signal;
 	             (6)  the owner of a motor vehicle that at the time of
 	the collision [accident] was being operated without the owner's
 	express or implied permission or was parked by a person who had been
 	operating the vehicle without that permission; or
 	             (7)  a person qualifying as a self-insurer under
 	Section 601.124 or a person operating a motor vehicle for a
 	self-insurer.
 	       SECTION 74.  Section 601.152(a), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  Subject to Section 601.153, the department shall
 	suspend the driver's license and vehicle registrations of the owner
 	and operator of a motor vehicle if:
 	             (1)  the vehicle is involved in any manner in a
 	collision [an accident]; and
 	             (2)  the department finds that there is a reasonable
 	probability that a judgment will be rendered against the person as a
 	result of the collision [accident].
 	       SECTION 75.  Sections 601.154(a), (c), and (d),
 	Transportation Code, are amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  Subject to Subsection (d), if the department finds that
 	there is a reasonable probability that a judgment will be rendered
 	against an owner or operator as a result of a collision [an
 	accident], the department shall determine the amount of security
 	sufficient to satisfy any judgment for damages resulting from the
 	collision [accident] that may be recovered from the owner or
 	operator.
 	       (c)  In determining whether there is a reasonable
 	probability that a judgment will be rendered against the person as a
 	result of a collision [an accident] and the amount of security that
 	is sufficient under Subsection (a), the department may consider:
 	             (1)  a report of an investigating officer; and
 	             (2)  an affidavit of a person who has knowledge of the
 	facts.
 	       (d)  The department shall make the determination required by
 	Subsection (a) only if the department has not received, before the
 	21st day after the date the department receives a report of a motor
 	vehicle collision [accident], satisfactory evidence that the owner
 	or operator has:
 	             (1)  been released from liability;
 	             (2)  been finally adjudicated not to be liable; or
 	             (3)  executed an acknowledged written agreement
 	providing for the payment of an agreed amount in installments for
 	all claims for injuries or damages resulting from the collision
 	[accident].
 	       SECTION 76.  Section 601.155(b), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (b)  The notice must state that:
 	             (1)  the person's driver's license and vehicle
 	registration or the person's nonresident's operating privilege will
 	be suspended unless the person, not later than the 20th day after
 	the date the notice was personally served or sent, establishes
 	that:
 	                   (A)  this subchapter does not apply to the person,
 	and the person has previously provided this information to the
 	department; or
 	                   (B)  there is no reasonable probability that a
 	judgment will be rendered against the person as a result of the
 	collision [accident]; and
 	             (2)  the person is entitled to a hearing under this
 	subchapter if a written request for a hearing is delivered or mailed
 	to the department not later than the 20th day after the date the
 	notice was personally served or sent.
 	       SECTION 77.  Section 601.157(b), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (b)  The judge at the hearing shall determine:
 	             (1)  whether there is a reasonable probability that a
 	judgment will be rendered against the person requesting the hearing
 	as a result of the collision [accident]; and
 	             (2)  if there is a reasonable probability that a
 	judgment will be rendered, the amount of security sufficient to
 	satisfy any judgment for damages resulting from the collision
 	[accident].
 	       SECTION 78.  Section 601.158(a), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  If, after a hearing under this subchapter, the judge
 	determines that there is a reasonable probability that a judgment
 	will be rendered against the person requesting the hearing as a
 	result of the collision [accident], the person may appeal the
 	determination.
 	       SECTION 79.  Section 601.162(a), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  The suspension of a driver's license, vehicle
 	registration, or nonresident's operating privilege under this
 	subchapter remains in effect, the license, registration, or
 	privilege may not be renewed, and a license or vehicle registration
 	may not be issued to the holder of the suspended license,
 	registration, or privilege, until:
 	             (1)  the date the person, or a person acting on the
 	person's behalf, deposits security and files evidence of financial
 	responsibility under Section 601.153;
 	             (2)  the second anniversary of the date of the
 	collision [accident], if evidence satisfactory to the department is
 	filed with the department that, during the two-year period, an
 	action for damages arising out of the collision [accident] has not
 	been instituted; or
 	             (3)  the date evidence satisfactory to the department
 	is filed with the department of:
 	                   (A)  a release from liability for claims arising
 	out of the collision [accident];
 	                   (B)  a final adjudication that the person is not
 	liable for claims arising out of the collision [accident]; or
 	                   (C)  an installment agreement described by
 	Section 601.154(d)(3).
 	       SECTION 80.  Section 601.163(b), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (b)  A person depositing security shall specify in writing
 	the person on whose behalf the deposit is made. A single deposit of
 	security is applicable only on behalf of persons required to
 	provide security because of the same collision [accident] and the
 	same motor vehicle.
 	       SECTION 81.  Section 601.164(a), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  The department may reduce the amount of security ordered
 	in a case within six months after the date of the collision
 	[accident] if, in the department's judgment, the amount is
 	excessive.
 	       SECTION 82.  Section 601.166, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 601.166.  PAYMENT OF CASH SECURITY. (a) Cash security
 	may be applied only to the payment of:
 	             (1)  a judgment rendered against the person on whose
 	behalf the deposit is made for damages arising out of the collision
 	[accident]; or
 	             (2)  a settlement, agreed to by the depositor, of a
 	claim arising out of the collision [accident].
 	       (b)  For payment under Subsection (a), the action under which
 	the judgment was rendered must have been instituted before the
 	second anniversary of the later of:
 	             (1)  the date of the collision [accident]; or
 	             (2)  the date of the deposit, in the case of a deposit
 	of security under Section 601.162(b).
 	       SECTION 83.  Section 601.167, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 601.167.  RETURN OF CASH SECURITY. Cash security or any
 	balance of the security shall be returned to the depositor or the
 	depositor's personal representative when:
 	             (1)  evidence satisfactory to the department is filed
 	with the department that there has been:
 	                   (A)  a release of liability;
 	                   (B)  a final adjudication that the person on whose
 	behalf the deposit is made is not liable; or
 	                   (C)  an agreement as described by Section
 	601.154(d)(3);
 	             (2)  reasonable evidence is provided to the department
 	after the second anniversary of the date of the collision
 	[accident] that no action arising out of the collision [accident]
 	is pending and no judgment rendered in such an action is unpaid; or
 	             (3)  in the case of a deposit of security under Section
 	601.162(b), reasonable evidence is provided to the department after
 	the second anniversary of the date of the deposit that no action
 	arising out of the collision [accident] is pending and no unpaid
 	judgment rendered in such an action is unpaid.
 	       SECTION 84.  Section 601.168(b), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (b)  A bond or motor vehicle liability insurance policy
 	issued by a surety company or insurance company that is not
 	authorized to do business in this state is effective under this
 	subchapter only if:
 	             (1)  the bond or policy is issued for a motor vehicle
 	that:
 	                   (A)  is not registered in this state; or
 	                   (B)  was not registered in this state on the
 	effective date of the most recent renewal of the policy; and
 	             (2)  the surety company or insurance company executes a
 	power of attorney authorizing the department to accept on the
 	company's behalf service of notice or process in an action arising
 	out of the collision [accident] on the bond or policy.
 	       SECTION 85.  Section 601.169, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 601.169.  REASONABLE PROBABILITY NOT ADMISSIBLE IN
 	CIVIL SUIT. A determination under Section 601.154 or 601.157 that
 	there is a reasonable probability that a judgment will be rendered
 	against a person as a result of a collision [an accident] may not be
 	introduced in evidence in a suit for damages arising from that
 	collision [accident].
 	       SECTION 86.  Section 601.291, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 601.291.  APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER. This subchapter
 	applies only to the owner or operator of a motor vehicle that:
 	             (1)  is not registered in this state; and
 	             (2)  is involved in a motor vehicle collision
 	[accident] in this state that results in bodily injury, death, or
 	damage to the property of one person to an apparent extent of at
 	least $500.
 	       SECTION 87.  Section 601.292, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 601.292.  DUTY TO PROVIDE EVIDENCE OF FINANCIAL
 	RESPONSIBILITY TO INVESTIGATING OFFICER. A person to whom this
 	subchapter applies shall provide evidence of financial
 	responsibility to a law enforcement officer of this state or a
 	political subdivision of this state who is conducting an
 	investigation of the collision [accident].
 	       SECTION 88.  Sections 601.293(b), (c), and (d),
 	Transportation Code, are amended to read as follows:
 	       (b)  The magistrate shall conduct an inquiry on the issues of
 	negligence and liability for bodily injury, death, or property
 	damage sustained in the collision [accident].
 	       (c)  If the magistrate determines that there is a reasonable
 	possibility that a judgment will be rendered against the person for
 	bodily injury, death, or property damage sustained in the collision
 	[accident], the magistrate shall order the person to provide:
 	             (1)  evidence of financial responsibility for the
 	bodily injury, death, or property damage; or
 	             (2)  evidence that the person is exempt from the
 	requirement of Section 601.051.
 	       (d)  A determination of negligence or liability under
 	Subsection (c) does not act as collateral estoppel on an issue in a
 	criminal or civil adjudication arising from the collision
 	[accident].
 	       SECTION 89.  Section 601.294, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 601.294.  IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLE. If a person to
 	whom this subchapter applies does not provide evidence required
 	under Section 601.293(c), the magistrate shall enter an order
 	directing the sheriff of the county or the chief of police of the
 	municipality to impound the motor vehicle owned or operated by the
 	person that was involved in the collision [accident].
 	       SECTION 90.  Section 601.296(a), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  The department shall issue a certificate of release of
 	an impounded motor vehicle to the owner, operator, or person
 	authorized by the owner on submission to the department of:
 	             (1)  evidence of financial responsibility under
 	Section 601.053 that shows that at the time of the collision
 	[accident] the vehicle was in compliance with Section 601.051 or
 	was exempt from the requirement of Section 601.051;
 	             (2)  a release executed by each person damaged in the
 	collision [accident] other than the operator of the vehicle for
 	which the certificate of release is requested; or
 	             (3)  security in a form and amount determined by the
 	department to secure the payment of damages for which the operator
 	may be liable.
 	       SECTION 91.  Section 601.333, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 601.333.  RELIEF FROM SUSPENSION: MOTOR VEHICLE
 	LIABILITY INSURANCE. (a) A person whose driver's license, vehicle
 	registrations, or nonresident's operating privilege has been
 	suspended or is subject to suspension under Section 601.332 may
 	file with the department:
 	             (1)  evidence that there was a motor vehicle liability
 	insurance policy covering the motor vehicle involved in the
 	collision [accident] out of which the judgment arose in effect at
 	the time of the collision [accident];
 	             (2)  an affidavit stating that the person was insured
 	at the time of the collision [accident], that the insurance company
 	is liable to pay the judgment, and the reason, if known, that the
 	insurance company has not paid the judgment;
 	             (3)  the original policy of insurance or a certified
 	copy of the policy, if available; and
 	             (4)  any other documents required by the department to
 	show that the loss, injury, or damage for which the judgment was
 	rendered was covered by the insurance.
 	       (b)  The department may not suspend the driver's license,
 	vehicle registrations, or nonresident's operating privilege, and
 	shall reinstate a license, registration, or privilege that has been
 	suspended, if it is satisfied from the documents filed under
 	Subsection (a) that:
 	             (1)  there was a motor vehicle liability insurance
 	policy in effect for the vehicle at the time of the collision
 	[accident];
 	             (2)  the insurance company that issued the policy was
 	authorized to issue the policy in this state at the time the policy
 	was issued; and
 	             (3)  the insurance company is liable to pay the
 	judgment to the extent and for the amounts required by this chapter.
 	       SECTION 92.  Section 622.954(a), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  A permit is not required to exceed the weight
 	limitations of Section 621.101 by a combination of a tow truck and
 	another vehicle or vehicle combination if:
 	             (1)  the nature of the service provided by the tow truck
 	is needed to remove disabled, abandoned, or collision-damaged
 	[accident-damaged] vehicles; and
 	             (2)  the tow truck is towing the other vehicle or
 	vehicle combination directly to the nearest authorized place of
 	repair, terminal, or vehicle storage facility.
 	       SECTION 93.  Section 623.0172(l), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (l)  Beginning in 2022, not later than September 1 of each
 	even-numbered year, the Texas Department of Transportation shall
 	conduct a study concerning vehicles operating under a permit issued
 	under this section and publish the results of the study. In
 	conducting the study, the Texas Department of Transportation shall
 	collect and examine the following information:
 	             (1)  the weight and configuration of vehicles operating
 	under a permit under this section that are involved in a motor
 	vehicle collision [accident];
 	             (2)  the types of vehicles operating under a permit
 	issued under this section;
 	             (3)  traffic volumes and variations of vehicles
 	operating under a permit issued under this section;
 	             (4)  weigh-in-motion data for highways located in and
 	around the area described by Subsection (c);
 	             (5)  impacts to state and local bridges, including
 	long-term bridge performance, for bridges located in and around the
 	area described by Subsection (c); and
 	             (6)  impacts to state and local roads, including
 	changes in pavement design standards, construction specification
 	details, maintenance frequency and types, and properties of
 	pavement and underlying soils resulting from or necessitated by
 	vehicles operating under a permit issued under this section.
 	       SECTION 94.  Section 623.410, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 623.410.  STUDY. Beginning in 2022, not later than
 	September 1 of each even-numbered year, the Texas Department of
 	Transportation shall conduct a study concerning vehicles operating
 	under a permit issued under this subchapter and publish the results
 	of the study. In conducting the study, the Texas Department of
 	Transportation shall collect and examine the following
 	information:
 	             (1)  the weight and configuration of vehicles operating
 	under a permit issued under this subchapter that are involved in a
 	motor vehicle collision [accident];
 	             (2)  the types of vehicles operating under a permit
 	issued under this subchapter;
 	             (3)  traffic volumes and variations of vehicles
 	operating under a permit issued under this subchapter;
 	             (4)  weigh-in-motion data for highways and roads
 	located in and around the area described by Section 623.405(b);
 	             (5)  impacts to state and local bridges, including
 	long-term bridge performance, for bridges located in and around the
 	area described by Section 623.405(b); and
 	             (6)  impacts to state and local roads, including
 	changes in pavement design standards, construction specification
 	details, maintenance frequency and types, and properties of
 	pavement and underlying soils resulting from or necessitated by
 	vehicles operating under a permit issued under this subchapter.
 	       SECTION 95.  Section 643.105, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 643.105.  INSOLVENCY OF INSURER. If an insurer for a
 	motor carrier becomes insolvent, is placed in receivership, or has
 	its certificate of authority suspended or revoked and if the
 	carrier no longer has insurance coverage as required by this
 	subchapter, the carrier shall file with the department, not later
 	than the 10th day after the date the coverage lapses:
 	             (1)  evidence of insurance as required by Section
 	643.103; and
 	             (2)  an affidavit that:
 	                   (A)  indicates that a collision [an accident] from
 	which the carrier may incur liability did not occur while the
 	coverage was not in effect; or
 	                   (B)  contains a plan acceptable to the department
 	indicating how the carrier will satisfy claims of liability against
 	the carrier for a collision [an accident] that occurred while the
 	coverage was not in effect.
 	       SECTION 96.  Section 644.151(b-1), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (b-1)  An offense under Subsection (a)(3) is a Class A
 	misdemeanor, except that the offense is:
 	             (1)  a state jail felony if it is shown on the trial of
 	the offense that at the time of the offense the commercial motor
 	vehicle was involved in a motor vehicle collision [accident] that
 	resulted in bodily injury; or
 	             (2)  a felony of the second degree if it is shown on the
 	trial of the offense that at the time of the offense the commercial
 	motor vehicle was involved in a motor vehicle collision [accident]
 	that resulted in the death of a person.
 	       SECTION 97.  Sections 661.003(c) and (i), Transportation
 	Code, are amended to read as follows:
 	       (c)  It is an exception to the application of Subsection (a)
 	or (b) that at the time the offense was committed, the person
 	required to wear protective headgear was at least 21 years old and
 	had successfully completed a motorcycle operator training and
 	safety course under Chapter 662 or was covered by a health insurance
 	plan providing the person with medical benefits for injuries
 	incurred as a result of a collision [an accident] while operating or
 	riding on a motorcycle.  A peace officer may not arrest a person or
 	issue a citation to a person for a violation of Subsection (a) or
 	(b) if the person required to wear protective headgear is at least
 	21 years of age and presents evidence sufficient to show that the
 	person required to wear protective headgear has successfully
 	completed a motorcycle operator training and safety course or is
 	covered by a health insurance plan as described by this subsection.
 	       (i)  In this section, "health insurance plan" means an
 	individual, group, blanket, or franchise insurance policy,
 	insurance agreement, evidence of coverage, group hospital services
 	contract, health maintenance organization membership, or employee
 	benefit plan that provides benefits for health care services or for
 	medical or surgical expenses incurred as a result of a collision [an
 	accident].
 	       SECTION 98.  Section 686.001(1), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	             (1)  "Financial responsibility" means the ability to
 	respond in damages for liability for a collision [an accident]
 	that:
 	                   (A)  occurs after the effective date of the
 	document evidencing the establishment of the financial
 	responsibility; and
 	                   (B)  arises out of the operation of a motor
 	vehicle by an employee of a valet parking service.
 	       SECTION 99.  Section 686.004(a), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  The minimum amounts of motor vehicle liability
 	insurance coverage required to establish financial responsibility
 	under this chapter are:
 	             (1)  $100,000 for bodily injury to or death of one
 	person in one collision [accident];
 	             (2)  $300,000 for bodily injury to or death of two or
 	more persons in one collision [accident], subject to the amount
 	provided by Subdivision (1) for bodily injury to or death of one of
 	the persons; and
 	             (3)  $50,000 for damage to or destruction of property
 	of others in one collision [accident].
 	       SECTION 100.  Section 686.005, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 686.005.  COMMON LAW DEFENSES. In an action against an
 	owner or operator of a valet parking service that has not
 	established financial responsibility as required by this chapter to
 	recover damages for personal injuries, death, or property damage
 	sustained in a motor vehicle collision [accident] arising out of
 	the operation of a valet parking service, it is not a defense that
 	the party who brings the action:
 	             (1)  was guilty of contributory negligence; or
 	             (2)  assumed the risk of injury, death, or property
 	damage.
 	       SECTION 101.  Section 709.002(e), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (e)  Of the money received by the comptroller under this
 	section, the comptroller shall deposit:
 	             (1)  80 percent to the credit of the undedicated
 	portion of the general revenue fund, to be used only for criminal
 	justice purposes; and
 	             (2)  20 percent to the credit of the designated trauma
 	facility and emergency medical services account under Section
 	780.003, Health and Safety Code, to be used only for the criminal
 	justice purpose of funding designated trauma facilities, county and
 	regional emergency medical services, and trauma care systems that
 	provide trauma care and emergency medical services to victims of
 	collisions [accidents] resulting from traffic offenses.
 	       SECTION 102.  Section 723.011(a), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  The governor shall:
 	             (1)  prepare and administer a statewide traffic safety
 	program designed to reduce traffic collisions [accidents] and the
 	death, injury, and property damage that result from traffic
 	collisions [accidents];
 	             (2)  adopt rules for the administration of this
 	chapter, including rules, procedures, and policy statements
 	governing grants-in-aid and contractual relations;
 	             (3)  receive on the state's behalf for the
 	implementation of this chapter money made available by the United
 	States under federal law; and
 	             (4)  allocate money appropriated by the legislature in
 	the General Appropriations Act to implement this chapter.
 	       SECTION 103.  Section 723.012, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 723.012.  TRAFFIC SAFETY PROGRAM. The statewide
 	traffic safety program must include:
 	             (1)  a driver education and training program
 	administered by the governor through appropriate agencies that
 	complies with Section 723.013;
 	             (2)  plans for improving:
 	                   (A)  driver licensing;
 	                   (B)  collision [accident] records;
 	                   (C)  vehicle inspection, registration, and
 	titling;
 	                   (D)  traffic engineering;
 	                   (E)  personnel;
 	                   (F)  police traffic supervision;
 	                   (G)  traffic courts;
 	                   (H)  highway design; and
 	                   (I)  uniform traffic laws; and
 	             (3)  plans for local traffic safety programs by legal
 	and political subdivisions of this state that may be implemented if
 	the programs:
 	                   (A)  are approved by the governor; and
 	                   (B)  conform with uniform standards adopted under
 	the Highway Safety Act of 1966 (23 U.S.C. Sec. 401 et seq.).
 	       SECTION 104.  Section 723.013(a), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  The statewide driver education and training program
 	required by Section 723.012 shall provide for:
 	             (1)  rules that permit controlled innovation and
 	experimentation and that set minimum standards for:
 	                   (A)  classroom instruction;
 	                   (B)  driving skills training;
 	                   (C)  instructor qualifications;
 	                   (D)  program content; and
 	                   (E)  supplementary materials and equipment;
 	             (2)  a method for continuing evaluation of approved
 	driver education and training programs to identify the practices
 	most effective in preventing traffic collisions [accidents]; and
 	             (3)  contracts between the governing bodies of
 	centrally located independent school districts or other
 	appropriate public or private agencies and the state to provide
 	approved driver education and training programs.
 	       SECTION 105.  Sections 724.012(a-1) and (b), Transportation
 	Code, are amended to read as follows:
 	       (a-1)  A peace officer shall require the taking of a specimen
 	of the person's blood if:
 	             (1)  the officer arrests the person for an offense
 	under Chapter 49, Penal Code, involving the operation of a motor
 	vehicle or a watercraft;
 	             (2)  the person refuses the officer's request to submit
 	to the taking of a specimen voluntarily;
 	             (3)  the person was the operator of a motor vehicle or a
 	watercraft involved in a collision [an accident] that the officer
 	reasonably believes occurred as a result of the offense; and
 	             (4)  at the time of the arrest, the officer reasonably
 	believes that as a direct result of the collision [accident] any
 	individual has died, will die, or has suffered serious bodily
 	injury.
 	       (b)  Subject to Subsection (a-1), a peace officer shall
 	require the taking of a specimen of the person's breath or blood
 	under any of the following circumstances if the officer arrests the
 	person for an offense under Chapter 49, Penal Code, involving the
 	operation of a motor vehicle or a watercraft and the person refuses
 	the officer's request to submit to the taking of a specimen
 	voluntarily:
 	             (1)  the person was the operator of a motor vehicle or a
 	watercraft involved in a collision [an accident] that the officer
 	reasonably believes occurred as a result of the offense and, at the
 	time of the arrest, the officer reasonably believes that as a direct
 	result of the collision [accident] an individual other than the
 	person has suffered bodily injury and been transported to a
 	hospital or other medical facility for medical treatment;
 	             (2)  the offense for which the officer arrests the
 	person is an offense under Section 49.045, Penal Code; or
 	             (3)  at the time of the arrest, the officer possesses or
 	receives reliable information from a credible source that the
 	person:
 	                   (A)  has been previously convicted of or placed on
 	community supervision for an offense under Section 49.045, 49.07,
 	or 49.08, Penal Code, or an offense under the laws of another state
 	containing elements substantially similar to the elements of an
 	offense under those sections; or
 	                   (B)  on two or more occasions, has been previously
 	convicted of or placed on community supervision for an offense
 	under Section 49.04, 49.05, 49.06, or 49.065, Penal Code, or an
 	offense under the laws of another state containing elements
 	substantially similar to the elements of an offense under those
 	sections.
 	       SECTION 106.  Section 726.002, Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 726.002.  TESTING AND INSPECTION OF MOTOR VEHICLES. A
 	municipality may adopt an ordinance:
 	             (1)  requiring each resident of the municipality,
 	including a corporation having its principal office or place of
 	business in the municipality, who owns a motor vehicle used for the
 	transportation of persons or property and each person operating a
 	motor vehicle on the public thoroughfares of the municipality to
 	have each motor vehicle owned or operated, as appropriate, tested
 	and inspected not more than four times in each calendar year;
 	             (2)  requiring each motor vehicle involved in a
 	collision [an accident] to be tested and inspected before it may be
 	operated on the public thoroughfares of the municipality; or
 	             (3)  requiring that a motor vehicle operated on the
 	public thoroughfares of the municipality be tested, inspected, and
 	approved by the testing and inspecting authority.
 	       SECTION 107.  Sections 730.003(4) and (6), Transportation
 	Code, are amended to read as follows:
 	             (4)  "Motor vehicle record" means a record that
 	pertains to a motor vehicle operator's or driver's license or
 	permit, motor vehicle registration, motor vehicle title, or
 	identification document issued by an agency of this state or a local
 	agency authorized to issue an identification document.  The term
 	does not include:
 	                   (A)  a record that pertains to a motor carrier; or
 	                   (B)  a collision [an accident] report prepared
 	under:
 	                         (i)  Chapter 550; or
 	                         (ii)  former Section 601.004 before
 	September 1, 2017.
 	             (6)  "Personal information" means information that
 	identifies a person, including an individual's photograph or
 	computerized image, social security number, date of birth, driver
 	identification number, name, address, but not the zip code, e-mail
 	address, telephone number, and medical or disability information.  
 	The term does not include:
 	                   (A)  information on vehicle collisions
 	[accidents], driving or equipment-related violations, or driver's
 	license or registration status; or
 	                   (B)  information contained in a collision [an
 	accident] report prepared under:
 	                         (i)  Chapter 550; or
 	                         (ii)  former Section 601.004 before
 	September 1, 2017.
 	       SECTION 108.  Section 1006.153(e), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (e)  Out of each fee collected under Subsection (b) or an
 	amount collected under Subsection (b-1):
 	             (1)  20 percent shall be appropriated to the authority
 	for the purposes of this chapter;
 	             (2)  20 percent shall be deposited to the credit of the
 	general revenue fund, to be used only for criminal justice
 	purposes; and
 	             (3)  60 percent shall be deposited to the credit of the
 	designated trauma facility and emergency medical services account
 	under Section 780.003, Health and Safety Code, to be used only for
 	the criminal justice purpose of funding designated trauma
 	facilities, county and regional emergency medical services, and
 	trauma care systems that provide trauma care and emergency medical
 	services to victims of collisions [accidents] resulting from
 	traffic offenses.
 	       SECTION 109.  The heading to Chapter 504, Business &
 	Commerce Code, is amended to read as follows:
 	CHAPTER 504.  PROHIBITED USE OF CRIME VICTIM OR MOTOR VEHICLE
 	COLLISION [ACCIDENT] INFORMATION
 	       SECTION 110.  Section 504.001(2), Business & Commerce Code,
 	is amended to read as follows:
 	             (2)  "Motor vehicle collision [accident] information"
 	means information that:
 	                   (A)  is collected or prepared by a law enforcement
 	agency; and
 	                   (B)  identifies or serves to identify a person
 	who, according to a record of the agency, may have been involved in
 	a motor vehicle collision [accident].
 	       SECTION 111.  Section 504.002(a), Business & Commerce Code,
 	is amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  A person who possesses crime victim or motor vehicle
 	collision [accident] information that the person obtained or knows
 	was obtained from a law enforcement agency may not:
 	             (1)  use the information to contact directly any of the
 	following persons for the purpose of soliciting business from the
 	person:
 	                   (A)  a crime victim;
 	                   (B)  a person who was involved in a motor vehicle
 	collision [accident]; or
 	                   (C)  a member of the family of a person described
 	by Paragraph (A) or (B); or
 	             (2)  sell the information to another person for
 	financial gain.
 	       SECTION 112.  Section 17.062(a), Civil Practice and Remedies
 	Code, is amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  The chairman of the Texas Transportation Commission is
 	an agent for service of process on a person who is a nonresident or
 	an agent of a nonresident in any suit against the person or agent
 	that grows out of a collision [or accident] in which the person or
 	the person's [his] agent is involved while operating a motor
 	vehicle in this state.
 	       SECTION 113.  Section 30.006(e), Civil Practice and Remedies
 	Code, is amended to read as follows:
 	       (e)  This section does not apply to:
 	             (1)  a report of a collision [an accident] under
 	Chapter 550, Transportation Code; and
 	             (2)  photographs, field measurements, scene drawings,
 	and collision [accident] reconstruction done in conjunction with
 	the investigation of the underlying collision [accident].
 	       SECTION 114.  Section 72.001, Civil Practice and Remedies
 	Code, is amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 72.001.  LIMITED LIABILITY. A person who is related to
 	the owner or operator of a motor vehicle within the second degree by
 	consanguinity or affinity, as determined under Chapter 573,
 	Government Code, and who is being transported in the motor vehicle
 	over a public highway of this state as a guest without payment for
 	the transportation has a cause of action against the owner or
 	operator of the motor vehicle for injury, death, or loss in a
 	collision [an accident] only if the collision [accident] was
 	intentional on the part of the owner or operator or was caused by
 	the owner's or operator's [his] heedlessness or reckless disregard
 	of the rights of others.
 	       SECTION 115.  Section 72.051, Civil Practice and Remedies
 	Code, is amended by amending Subdivisions (2) and (4) and adding
 	Subdivision (3-a) to read as follows:
 	             (2)  "Civil action" means an action in which:
 	                   (A)  a claimant seeks recovery of damages for
 	bodily injury or death caused in a collision [an accident]; and
 	                   (B)  a defendant:
 	                         (i)  operated a commercial motor vehicle
 	involved in the collision [accident]; or
 	                         (ii)  owned, leased, or otherwise held or
 	exercised legal control over a commercial motor vehicle or operator
 	of a commercial motor vehicle involved in the collision [accident].
 	             (3-a)  "Collision" means an event in which operating a
 	commercial motor vehicle causes bodily injury or death.
 	             (4)  "Commercial motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle
 	being used for commercial purposes in interstate or intrastate
 	commerce to transport property or passengers, deliver or transport
 	goods, or provide services.  The term does not include a motor
 	vehicle being used at the time of the collision [accident] for
 	personal, family, or household purposes.
 	       SECTION 116.  The heading to Section 72.052, Civil Practice
 	and Remedies Code, is amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 72.052.  BIFURCATED TRIAL IN CERTAIN COMMERCIAL MOTOR
 	VEHICLE COLLISION [ACCIDENT] ACTIONS.
 	       SECTION 117.  Sections 72.054(a), (c), (d), and (f), Civil
 	Practice and Remedies Code, are amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  Except as provided by Subsection (d), in a civil action
 	under this subchapter, an employer defendant's liability for
 	damages caused by the ordinary negligence of a person operating the
 	defendant's commercial motor vehicle shall be based only on
 	respondeat superior if the defendant stipulates, within the time
 	provided by Section 72.052 for filing a motion to bifurcate, that,
 	at the time of the collision [accident], the person operating the
 	vehicle was:
 	             (1)  the defendant's employee; and
 	             (2)  acting within the scope of employment.
 	       (c)  In a civil action under this subchapter in which an
 	employer defendant is regulated by the Motor Carrier Safety
 	Improvement Act of 1999 (Pub. L. No. 106-159) or Chapter 644,
 	Transportation Code, a party may present any of the following
 	evidence in the first phase of a trial that is bifurcated under
 	Section 72.052 if applicable to a defendant in the action:
 	             (1)  whether the employee who was operating the
 	employer defendant's commercial motor vehicle at the time of the
 	collision [accident] that is the subject of the civil action:
 	                   (A)  was licensed to drive the vehicle at the time
 	of the collision [accident];
 	                   (B)  was disqualified from driving the vehicle
 	under 49 C.F.R. Section 383.51, 383.52, or 391.15 at the time of the
 	collision [accident];
 	                   (C)  was subject to an out-of-service order, as
 	defined by 49 C.F.R. Section 390.5, at the time of the collision
 	[accident];
 	                   (D)  was driving the vehicle in violation of a
 	license restriction imposed under 49 C.F.R. Section 383.95 or
 	Section 522.043, Transportation Code, at the time of the collision
 	[accident];
 	                   (E)  had received a certificate of driver's road
 	test from the employer defendant as required by 49 C.F.R. Section
 	391.31 or had an equivalent certificate or license as provided by 49
 	C.F.R. Section 391.33;
 	                   (F)  had been medically certified as physically
 	qualified to operate the vehicle under 49 C.F.R. Section 391.41;
 	                   (G)  was operating the vehicle when prohibited
 	from doing so under 49 C.F.R. Section 382.201, 382.205, 382.207,
 	382.215, 395.3, or 395.5 or 37 T.A.C. Section 4.12, as applicable,
 	on the day of the collision [accident];
 	                   (H)  was texting or using a handheld mobile
 	telephone while driving the vehicle in violation of 49 C.F.R.
 	Section 392.80 or 392.82 at the time of the collision [accident];
 	                   (I)  provided the employer defendant with an
 	application for employment as required by 49 C.F.R. Section
 	391.21(a) if the collision [accident] occurred on or before the
 	first anniversary of the date the employee began employment with
 	the employer defendant; and
 	                   (J)  refused to submit to a controlled substance
 	test as required by 49 C.F.R. Section 382.303, 382.305, 382.307,
 	382.309, or 382.311 during the two years preceding the date of the
 	collision [accident]; and
 	             (2)  whether the employer defendant:
 	                   (A)  allowed the employee to operate the
 	employer's commercial motor vehicle on the day of the collision
 	[accident] in violation of 49 C.F.R. Section 382.201, 382.205,
 	382.207, 382.215, 382.701(d), 395.3, or 395.5 or 37 T.A.C. Section
 	4.12, as applicable;
 	                   (B)  had complied with 49 C.F.R. Section 382.301
 	in regard to controlled-substance testing of the employee driver
 	if:
 	                         (i)  the employee driver was impaired
 	because of the use of a controlled substance at the time of the
 	collision [accident]; and
 	                         (ii)  the collision [accident] occurred on
 	or before the 180th day after the date the employee driver began
 	employment with the employer defendant;
 	                   (C)  had made the investigations and inquiries as
 	provided by 49 C.F.R. Section 391.23(a) in regard to the employee
 	driver if the collision [accident] occurred on or before the first
 	anniversary of the date the employee driver began employment with
 	the employer defendant; and
 	                   (D)  was subject to an out-of-service order, as
 	defined by 49 C.F.R. Section 390.5, at the time of the collision
 	[accident].
 	       (d)  If a civil action is bifurcated under Section 72.052,
 	evidence admissible under Subsection (c) is:
 	             (1)  admissible in the first phase of the trial only to
 	prove ordinary negligent entrustment by the employer defendant to
 	the employee who was driving the employer defendant's commercial
 	motor vehicle at the time of the collision [accident] that is the
 	subject of the action; and
 	             (2)  the only evidence that may be presented by the
 	claimant in the first phase of the trial on the negligent
 	entrustment claim.
 	       (f)  Nothing in this section prevents a claimant from
 	pursuing:
 	             (1)  an ordinary negligence claim against an employer
 	defendant for a claim, such as negligent maintenance, that does not
 	require a finding of negligence by an employee as a prerequisite to
 	an employer defendant being found negligent for its conduct or
 	omission, or from presenting evidence on that claim in the first
 	phase of a bifurcated trial; or
 	             (2)  a claim for exemplary damages under Chapter 41 for
 	an employer defendant's conduct or omissions in relation to the
 	collision [accident] that is the subject of the action, or from
 	presenting evidence on that claim in the second phase of a
 	bifurcated trial.
 	       SECTION 118.  Section 72.055, Civil Practice and Remedies
 	Code, is amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 72.055.  ADMISSIBILITY OF VISUAL DEPICTIONS OF
 	COLLISION [ACCIDENT]. (a)  In a civil action under this subchapter,
 	a court may not require expert testimony for admission into
 	evidence of a photograph or video of a vehicle or object involved in
 	a collision [an accident] that is the subject of the action except
 	as necessary to authenticate the photograph or video.
 	       (b)  If properly authenticated under the Texas Rules of
 	Evidence, a photograph or video of a vehicle or object involved in a
 	collision [an accident] that is the subject of a civil action under
 	this subchapter is presumed admissible, even if the photograph or
 	video tends to support or refute an assertion regarding the
 	severity of damages or injury to an object or person involved in the
 	collision [accident].
 	       SECTION 119.  Article 12.01, Code of Criminal Procedure, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Art. 12.01.  FELONIES. Except as provided in Article 12.03,
 	felony indictments may be presented within these limits, and not
 	afterward:
 	             (1)  no limitation:
 	                   (A)  murder and manslaughter;
 	                   (B)  sexual assault under Section 22.011(a)(2),
 	Penal Code, or aggravated sexual assault under Section
 	22.021(a)(1)(B), Penal Code;
 	                   (C)  sexual assault, if:
 	                         (i)  during the investigation of the offense
 	biological matter is collected and the matter:
 	                               (a)  has not yet been subjected to
 	forensic DNA testing; or
 	                               (b)  has been subjected to forensic DNA
 	testing and the testing results show that the matter does not match
 	the victim or any other person whose identity is readily
 	ascertained; or
 	                         (ii)  probable cause exists to believe that
 	the defendant has committed the same or a similar sex offense
 	against five or more victims;
 	                   (D)  continuous sexual abuse of young child or
 	disabled individual under Section 21.02, Penal Code;
 	                   (E)  indecency with a child under Section 21.11,
 	Penal Code;
 	                   (F)  an offense involving leaving the scene of a
 	collision [an accident] under Section 550.021, Transportation
 	Code, if the collision [accident] resulted in the death of a person;
 	                   (G)  trafficking of persons under Section
 	20A.02(a)(7) or (8), Penal Code;
 	                   (H)  continuous trafficking of persons under
 	Section 20A.03, Penal Code; or
 	                   (I)  compelling prostitution under Section
 	43.05(a)(2), Penal Code;
 	             (2)  ten years from the date of the commission of the
 	offense:
 	                   (A)  theft of any estate, real, personal or mixed,
 	by an executor, administrator, guardian or trustee, with intent to
 	defraud any creditor, heir, legatee, ward, distributee,
 	beneficiary or settlor of a trust interested in such estate;
 	                   (B)  theft by a public servant of government
 	property over which the public servant exercises control in the
 	public servant's official capacity;
 	                   (C)  forgery or the uttering, using, or passing of
 	forged instruments;
 	                   (D)  injury to an elderly or disabled individual
 	punishable as a felony of the first degree under Section 22.04,
 	Penal Code;
 	                   (E)  sexual assault, except as provided by
 	Subdivision (1) or (7);
 	                   (F)  arson;
 	                   (G)  trafficking of persons under Section
 	20A.02(a)(1), (2), (3), or (4), Penal Code; or
 	                   (H)  compelling prostitution under Section
 	43.05(a)(1), Penal Code;
 	             (3)  seven years from the date of the commission of the
 	offense:
 	                   (A)  misapplication of fiduciary property or
 	property of a financial institution;
 	                   (B)  fraudulent securing of document execution;
 	                   (C)  a felony violation under Chapter 162, Tax
 	Code;
 	                   (D)  false statement to obtain property or credit
 	under Section 32.32, Penal Code;
 	                   (E)  money laundering;
 	                   (F)  credit card or debit card abuse under Section
 	32.31, Penal Code;
 	                   (G)  fraudulent use or possession of identifying
 	information under Section 32.51, Penal Code;
 	                   (H)  exploitation of a child, elderly individual,
 	or disabled individual under Section 32.53, Penal Code;
 	                   (I)  health care fraud under Section 35A.02, Penal
 	Code; or
 	                   (J)  bigamy under Section 25.01, Penal Code,
 	except as provided by Subdivision (6);
 	             (4)  five years from the date of the commission of the
 	offense:
 	                   (A)  theft or robbery;
 	                   (B)  except as provided by Subdivision (5),
 	kidnapping or burglary;
 	                   (C)  injury to an elderly or disabled individual
 	that is not punishable as a felony of the first degree under Section
 	22.04, Penal Code;
 	                   (D)  abandoning or endangering a child; or
 	                   (E)  insurance fraud;
 	             (5)  if the investigation of the offense shows that the
 	victim is younger than 17 years of age at the time the offense is
 	committed, 20 years from the 18th birthday of the victim of one of
 	the following offenses:
 	                   (A)  sexual performance by a child under Section
 	43.25, Penal Code;
 	                   (B)  aggravated kidnapping under Section
 	20.04(a)(4), Penal Code, if the defendant committed the offense
 	with the intent to violate or abuse the victim sexually; or
 	                   (C)  burglary under Section 30.02, Penal Code, if
 	the offense is punishable under Subsection (d) of that section and
 	the defendant committed the offense with the intent to commit an
 	offense described by Subdivision (1)(B) or (D) of this article or
 	Paragraph (B) of this subdivision;
 	             (6)  ten years from the 18th birthday of the victim of
 	the offense:
 	                   (A)  trafficking of persons under Section
 	20A.02(a)(5) or (6), Penal Code;
 	                   (B)  injury to a child under Section 22.04, Penal
 	Code; or
 	                   (C)  bigamy under Section 25.01, Penal Code, if
 	the investigation of the offense shows that the person, other than
 	the legal spouse of the defendant, whom the defendant marries or
 	purports to marry or with whom the defendant lives under the
 	appearance of being married is younger than 18 years of age at the
 	time the offense is committed;
 	             (7)  two years from the date the offense was
 	discovered: sexual assault punishable as a state jail felony under
 	Section 22.011(f)(2), Penal Code; or
 	             (8)  three years from the date of the commission of the
 	offense: all other felonies.
 	       SECTION 120.  The heading to Article 42A.516, Code of
 	Criminal Procedure, is amended to read as follows:
 	       Art. 42A.516.  COMMUNITY SUPERVISION FOR LEAVING SCENE OF
 	MOTOR VEHICLE COLLISION [ACCIDENT] RESULTING IN DEATH OF PERSON.
 	       SECTION 121.  Article 49.10(j), Code of Criminal Procedure,
 	is amended to read as follows:
 	       (j)  A justice of the peace may order a physician, qualified
 	technician, paramedic, chemist, registered professional nurse, or
 	licensed vocational nurse to take a specimen of blood from the body
 	of a person who died as the result of a motor vehicle collision
 	[accident] if the justice determines that circumstances indicate
 	that the person may have been driving while intoxicated.
 	       SECTION 122.  Article 59.01(3), Code of Criminal Procedure,
 	is amended to read as follows:
 	             (3)  "Crime of violence" means:
 	                   (A)  any criminal offense defined in the Penal
 	Code or in a federal criminal law that results in a personal injury
 	to a victim; or
 	                   (B)  an act that is not an offense under the Penal
 	Code involving the operation of a motor vehicle, aircraft, or water
 	vehicle that results in injury or death sustained in a collision [an
 	accident] caused by a driver in violation of Section 550.021,
 	Transportation Code.
 	       SECTION 123.  The heading to Section 34.015, Education Code,
 	is amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 34.015.  REPORTING OF BUS COLLISIONS [ACCIDENTS].
 	       SECTION 124.  Section 34.015(b), Education Code, is amended
 	to read as follows:
 	       (b)  A school district shall report annually to the Texas
 	Education Agency the number of collisions [accidents] in which the
 	district's buses are involved. The agency by rule shall determine
 	the information to be reported, including:
 	             (1)  the type of bus involved in the collision
 	[accident];
 	             (2)  whether the bus was equipped with seat belts;
 	             (3)  the number of students and adults involved in the
 	collision [accident];
 	             (4)  the number and types of injuries sustained by bus
 	passengers in the collision [accident]; and
 	             (5)  whether the injured passengers were wearing seat
 	belts at the time of the collision [accident].
 	       SECTION 125.  Section 54.352(g), Education Code, is amended
 	to read as follows:
 	       (g)  For the purpose of this section, an injury is suffered
 	during the performance of a duty as a peace officer if the injury
 	occurs as a result of the peace officer's performance of any of the
 	following law enforcement duties:
 	             (1)  traffic enforcement or traffic control duties,
 	including enforcement of traffic laws, investigation of vehicle
 	collisions [accidents], or directing traffic;
 	             (2)  pursuit, arrest, or search of a person reasonably
 	believed to have violated a law;
 	             (3)  investigation, including undercover
 	investigation, of a criminal act;
 	             (4)  patrol duties, including automobile, bicycle,
 	foot, air, or horse patrol;
 	             (5)  duties related to the transfer of prisoners; or
 	             (6)  training duties, including participation in any
 	training required by the officer's employer or supervisor or by the
 	Texas Commission on Law Enforcement.
 	       SECTION 126.  Section 1001.1015(b), Education Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (b)  A driver education course under Subsection (a) must:
 	             (1)  provide at least the minimum number of hours of
 	classroom instruction required by commission rule; and
 	             (2)  include instruction in:
 	                   (A)  alcohol and drug awareness;
 	                   (B)  the traffic laws of this state;
 	                   (C)  highway signs, signals, and markings that
 	regulate, warn, or direct traffic; and
 	                   (D)  the issues commonly associated with motor
 	vehicle collisions [accidents], including poor decision-making,
 	risk taking, impaired driving, distraction, speed, failure to use a
 	safety belt, driving at night, failure to yield the right-of-way,
 	and using a wireless communication device while operating a
 	vehicle.
 	       SECTION 127.  Section 1001.112(b), Education Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (b)  A person is eligible to conduct a driver education
 	course for another person as provided by Subsection (a) if the
 	person:
 	             (1)  is either:
 	                   (A)  a parent, stepparent, foster parent, legal
 	guardian, grandparent, or step-grandparent of the other person; or
 	                   (B)  an individual who:
 	                         (i)  has been designated on a form
 	prescribed by the department for purposes of this section by a
 	parent or legal guardian of the other person or by a judge of a court
 	with jurisdiction over the other person;
 	                         (ii)  is at least 25 years of age;
 	                         (iii)  does not charge a fee for conducting
 	the course; and
 	                         (iv)  has at least seven years of driving
 	experience;
 	             (2)  has possessed a valid license for the preceding
 	three years that has not been suspended, revoked, or forfeited in
 	the past three years for an offense that involves the operation of a
 	motor vehicle;
 	             (3)  has not been convicted of:
 	                   (A)  criminally negligent homicide; or
 	                   (B)  driving while intoxicated in the past seven
 	years; and
 	             (4)  has not been convicted during the preceding three
 	years of:
 	                   (A)  three or more moving violations described by
 	Section 542.304, Transportation Code, including violations that
 	resulted in a collision [an accident]; or
 	                   (B)  two or more moving violations described by
 	Section 542.304, Transportation Code, that resulted in a collision
 	[an accident].
 	       SECTION 128.  Section 203.007(b), Family Code, is amended to
 	read as follows:
 	       (b)  A domestic relations office is entitled to obtain from
 	the Department of Public Safety records that relate to:
 	             (1)  a person's date of birth;
 	             (2)  a person's most recent address;
 	             (3)  a person's current driver's license status;
 	             (4)  motor vehicle collisions [accidents] involving a
 	person;
 	             (5)  reported traffic-law violations of which a person
 	has been convicted; and
 	             (6)  a person's criminal history record information.
 	       SECTION 129.  Section 264.513(c), Family Code, is amended to
 	read as follows:
 	       (c)  A person is not required to report a death under this
 	section that is the result of a motor vehicle collision [accident].
 	This subsection does not affect a duty imposed by another law to
 	report a death that is the result of a motor vehicle collision
 	[accident].
 	       SECTION 130.  Section 411.019(a), Government Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  The department shall provide a 24-hour toll-free
 	telephone number for use by the public in reporting traffic
 	offenses, including driving while intoxicated, suspected criminal
 	activity, and traffic collisions [accidents] and other
 	emergencies.
 	       SECTION 131.  Section 411.0726(e), Government Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (e)  A court may not issue an order of nondisclosure of
 	criminal history record information under this section if the
 	attorney representing the state presents evidence sufficient to the
 	court demonstrating that the commission of the offense for which
 	the order is sought resulted in a motor vehicle collision
 	[accident] involving another person, including a passenger in a
 	motor vehicle operated by the person seeking the order of
 	nondisclosure.
 	       SECTION 132.  Section 411.0731(e), Government Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (e)  A court may not issue an order of nondisclosure of
 	criminal history record information under this section if the
 	attorney representing the state presents evidence sufficient to the
 	court demonstrating that the commission of the offense for which
 	the order is sought resulted in a motor vehicle collision
 	[accident] involving another person, including a passenger in a
 	motor vehicle operated by the person seeking the order of
 	nondisclosure.
 	       SECTION 133.  Section 411.0736(e), Government Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (e)  A court may not issue an order of nondisclosure of
 	criminal history record information under this section if the
 	attorney representing the state presents evidence sufficient to the
 	court demonstrating that the commission of the offense for which
 	the order is sought resulted in a motor vehicle collision
 	[accident] involving another person, including a passenger in a
 	motor vehicle operated by the person seeking the order of
 	nondisclosure.
 	       SECTION 134.  Section 423.002(a), Government Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  It is lawful to capture an image using an unmanned
 	aircraft in this state:
 	             (1)  for the purpose of professional or scholarly
 	research and development or for another academic purpose by a
 	person acting on behalf of an institution of higher education or a
 	private or independent institution of higher education, as those
 	terms are defined by Section 61.003, Education Code, including a
 	person who:
 	                   (A)  is a professor, employee, or student of the
 	institution; or
 	                   (B)  is under contract with or otherwise acting
 	under the direction or on behalf of the institution;
 	             (2)  in airspace designated as a test site or range
 	authorized by the Federal Aviation Administration for the purpose
 	of integrating unmanned aircraft systems into the national
 	airspace;
 	             (3)  as part of an operation, exercise, or mission of
 	any branch of the United States military;
 	             (4)  if the image is captured by a satellite for the
 	purposes of mapping;
 	             (5)  if the image is captured by or for an electric or
 	natural gas utility or a telecommunications provider:
 	                   (A)  for operations and maintenance of utility or
 	telecommunications facilities for the purpose of maintaining
 	utility or telecommunications system reliability and integrity;
 	                   (B)  for inspecting utility or telecommunications
 	facilities to determine repair, maintenance, or replacement needs
 	during and after construction of such facilities;
 	                   (C)  for assessing vegetation growth for the
 	purpose of maintaining clearances on utility or telecommunications
 	easements; and
 	                   (D)  for utility or telecommunications facility
 	routing and siting for the purpose of providing utility or
 	telecommunications service;
 	             (6)  with the consent of the individual who owns or
 	lawfully occupies the real property captured in the image;
 	             (7)  pursuant to a valid search or arrest warrant;
 	             (8)  if the image is captured by a law enforcement
 	authority or a person who is under contract with or otherwise acting
 	under the direction or on behalf of a law enforcement authority:
 	                   (A)  in immediate pursuit of a person law
 	enforcement officers have reasonable suspicion or probable cause to
 	suspect has committed an offense, not including misdemeanors or
 	offenses punishable by a fine only;
 	                   (B)  for the purpose of documenting a crime scene
 	where an offense, not including misdemeanors or offenses punishable
 	by a fine only, has been committed;
 	                   (C)  for the purpose of investigating the scene
 	of:
 	                         (i)  a human fatality;
 	                         (ii)  a motor vehicle collision [accident]
 	causing death or serious bodily injury to a person; or
 	                         (iii)  any motor vehicle collision
 	[accident] on a state highway or federal interstate or highway;
 	                   (D)  in connection with the search for a missing
 	person;
 	                   (E)  for the purpose of conducting a high-risk
 	tactical operation that poses a threat to human life;
 	                   (F)  of private property that is generally open to
 	the public where the property owner consents to law enforcement
 	public safety responsibilities; or
 	                   (G)  of real property or a person on real property
 	that is within 25 miles of the United States border for the sole
 	purpose of ensuring border security;
 	             (9)  if the image is captured by state or local law
 	enforcement authorities, or a person who is under contract with or
 	otherwise acting under the direction or on behalf of state
 	authorities, for the purpose of:
 	                   (A)  surveying the scene of a catastrophe or other
 	damage to determine whether a state of emergency should be
 	declared;
 	                   (B)  preserving public safety, protecting
 	property, or surveying damage or contamination during a lawfully
 	declared state of emergency; or
 	                   (C)  conducting routine air quality sampling and
 	monitoring, as provided by state or local law;
 	             (10)  at the scene of a spill, or a suspected spill, of
 	hazardous materials;
 	             (11)  for the purpose of fire suppression;
 	             (12)  for the purpose of rescuing a person whose life or
 	well-being is in imminent danger;
 	             (13)  if the image is captured by a Texas licensed real
 	estate broker in connection with the marketing, sale, or financing
 	of real property, provided that no individual is identifiable in
 	the image;
 	             (14)  from a height no more than eight feet above ground
 	level in a public place, if the image was captured without using any
 	electronic, mechanical, or other means to amplify the image beyond
 	normal human perception;
 	             (15)  of public real property or a person on that
 	property;
 	             (16)  if the image is captured by the owner or operator
 	of an oil, gas, water, or other pipeline for the purpose of
 	inspecting, maintaining, or repairing pipelines or other related
 	facilities, and is captured without the intent to conduct
 	surveillance on an individual or real property located in this
 	state;
 	             (17)  in connection with oil pipeline safety and rig
 	protection;
 	             (18)  in connection with port authority surveillance
 	and security;
 	             (19)  if the image is captured by a registered
 	professional land surveyor in connection with the practice of
 	professional surveying, as those terms are defined by Section
 	1071.002, Occupations Code, provided that no individual is
 	identifiable in the image;
 	             (20)  if the image is captured by a professional
 	engineer licensed under Subchapter G, Chapter 1001, Occupations
 	Code, in connection with the practice of engineering, as defined by
 	Section 1001.003, Occupations Code, provided that no individual is
 	identifiable in the image; or
 	             (21)  if:
 	                   (A)  the image is captured by an employee of an
 	insurance company or of an affiliate of the company in connection
 	with the underwriting of an insurance policy, or the rating or
 	adjusting of an insurance claim, regarding real property or a
 	structure on real property; and
 	                   (B)  the operator of the unmanned aircraft is
 	authorized by the Federal Aviation Administration to conduct
 	operations within the airspace from which the image is captured.
 	       SECTION 135.  Section 1952.155, Insurance Code, is amended
 	to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 1952.155.  BENEFITS PAYABLE WITHOUT REGARD TO FAULT OR
 	COLLATERAL SOURCE; EFFECT ON SUBROGATION. (a) The benefits under
 	coverage required by this subchapter are payable without regard to:
 	             (1)  the fault or nonfault of the named insured or
 	recipient in causing or contributing to the collision [accident];
 	and
 	             (2)  any collateral source of medical, hospital, or
 	wage continuation benefits.
 	       (b)  Except as provided by Subsection (c), an insurer paying
 	benefits under coverage required by this subchapter does not have a
 	right of subrogation or claim against any other person or insurer to
 	recover any benefits by reason of the alleged fault of the other
 	person in causing or contributing to the collision [accident].
 	       (c)  An insurer paying benefits pursuant to this subchapter,
 	including a county mutual insurance company, shall have a right of
 	subrogation and a claim against a person causing or contributing to
 	the collision [accident] if, on the date of loss, financial
 	responsibility as required by Chapter 601, Transportation Code, has
 	not been established for a motor vehicle involved in the collision
 	[accident] and operated by that person.
 	       SECTION 136.  Section 1954.056(b), Insurance Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (b)  A transportation network company driver shall carry
 	proof of insurance that satisfies Sections 1954.052 and 1954.053
 	with the driver when the driver uses a vehicle in connection with a
 	transportation network company's digital network. In the event of
 	a collision [an accident], a driver shall provide the proof of
 	insurance to a directly interested person, automobile insurer, and
 	investigating peace officer on request under Section 601.053,
 	Transportation Code.  On request, a driver shall also disclose to a
 	directly interested person, automobile insurer, and investigating
 	peace officer whether, at the time of the collision [accident], the
 	driver was:
 	             (1)  logged on to the company's digital network; or
 	             (2)  engaged in a prearranged ride.
 	       SECTION 137.  Section 2308.002(5-a), Occupations Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	             (5-a)  "Incident management tow" means any tow of a
 	vehicle in which the tow truck is summoned to the scene of a traffic
 	collision [accident] or to an incident, including the removal of a
 	vehicle, commercial cargo, and commercial debris from a collision
 	[an accident] or incident scene.
 	       SECTION 138.  Sections 2308.209(c), (d), and (h),
 	Occupations Code, are amended to read as follows:
 	       (c)  The sheriff's office may maintain a list of towing
 	companies to perform nonconsent tows of motor vehicles initiated by
 	a peace officer investigating a traffic collision [accident] or a
 	traffic incident.  The towing companies must operate in a county to
 	which this section applies.
 	       (d)  A peace officer initiating a nonconsent tow of a motor
 	vehicle involved in a traffic collision [accident] or traffic
 	incident that the officer is investigating shall notify the
 	sheriff's office that the tow is being initiated.  The sheriff's
 	office shall contact successive towing companies on the tow
 	rotation list until a company agrees to carry out the tow.
 	       (h)  In a county in which a list is maintained under
 	Subsection (c), a person commits an offense if:
 	             (1)  the person arrives at the scene of a traffic
 	collision [accident] or traffic incident to perform a nonconsent
 	tow of a motor vehicle without first being contacted by the
 	sheriff's office;
 	             (2)  the person directly or indirectly solicits, on
 	streets located in the county, towing services, including towing,
 	removing, repairing, wrecking, storing, trading, selling, or
 	purchasing related to a vehicle that has been damaged in a collision
 	[an accident] to the extent that it cannot be normally and safely
 	driven; or
 	             (3)  the person enters the scene of a traffic collision
 	[accident], traffic incident, or other area under the control of a
 	peace officer without the permission of the peace officer.
 	       SECTION 139.  The heading to Section 38.18, Penal Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 38.18.  USE OF COLLISION [ACCIDENT] REPORT INFORMATION
 	AND OTHER INFORMATION FOR PECUNIARY GAIN.
 	       SECTION 140.  Section 2(4-a), Article 6243g-4, Revised
 	Statutes, is amended to read as follows:
 	             (4-a)  "Catastrophic injury" means a sudden, violent,
 	life-threatening, duty-related injury sustained by an active
 	member that is due to an externally caused motor vehicle collision
 	[accident], gunshot wound, aggravated assault, or other external
 	event or events and results, as supported by evidence, in one of the
 	following conditions:
 	                   (A)  total, complete, and permanent loss of sight
 	in one or both eyes;
 	                   (B)  total, complete, and permanent loss of the
 	use of one or both feet at or above the ankle;
 	                   (C)  total, complete, and permanent loss of the
 	use of one or both hands at or above the wrist;
 	                   (D)  injury to the spine that results in a total,
 	permanent, and complete paralysis of both arms, both legs, or one
 	arm and one leg; or
 	                   (E)  an externally caused physical traumatic
 	injury to the brain rendering the member physically or mentally
 	unable to perform the member's duties as a police officer.
 	       SECTION 141.  Section 72.051(1), Civil Practice and Remedies
 	Code, is repealed.
 	       SECTION 142.  The changes in law made by this Act are
 	nonsubstantive and are intended to clarify rather than change
 	existing law.
 	       SECTION 143.  To the extent of any conflict, this Act
 	prevails over another Act of the 88th Legislature, Regular Session,
 	2023, relating to nonsubstantive additions to and corrections in
 	enacted codes.
 	       SECTION 144.  This Act takes effect September 1, 2023.
 
 
 	______________________________	______________________________
 	   President of the Senate	Speaker of the House     
 
 
 	       I certify that H.B. No. 2190 was passed by the House on May 9,
 	2023, by the following vote:  Yeas 133, Nays 9, 2 present, not
 	voting; and that the House concurred in Senate amendments to H.B.
 	No. 2190 on May 26, 2023, by the following vote:  Yeas 138, Nays 0,
 	1 present, not voting.
 	
 	______________________________
 	Chief Clerk of the House   
 
 	       I certify that H.B. No. 2190 was passed by the Senate, with
 	amendments, on May 24, 2023, by the following vote:  Yeas 30, Nays
 	0.
 	
 	______________________________
 	Secretary of the Senate   
 	APPROVED: __________________
 	                Date       
 	 
 	         __________________
 	              Governor