H.B. No. 2899



AN ACT

 	relating to the impoundment of a vehicle used in the commission of
 	the offense of racing on a highway or in the commission of certain
 	criminal conduct involving a reckless driving exhibition.
 	       BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF TEXAS:
 	       SECTION 1.  The heading to Section 545.420, Transportation
 	Code, is amended to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 545.420.  RACING ON HIGHWAY; IMPOUNDMENT OF A VEHICLE.
 	       SECTION 2.  Section 545.420(i), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (i)  [This subsection applies only to a motor vehicle used in
 	the commission of an offense under this section that results in an
 	accident with property damage or personal injury.]  A peace officer
 	shall require a [the] vehicle used in the commission of an offense
 	under Subsection (a) or an offense punishable under Section
 	42.03(d) or (e), Penal Code, to be taken to the nearest licensed
 	vehicle storage facility unless the vehicle is seized as evidence,
 	in which case the vehicle may be taken to a storage facility as
 	designated by the peace officer involved.  Notwithstanding Article
 	18.23, Code of Criminal Procedure, the owner of a [motor] vehicle
 	that is removed or stored under this subsection is liable for all
 	removal and storage fees incurred and is not entitled to take
 	possession of the vehicle until those fees are paid.
 	       SECTION 3.  The changes in law made by this Act apply only to
 	an offense committed on or after the effective date of this Act.  An
 	offense committed before the effective date of this Act is governed
 	by the law in effect on the date the offense was committed, and the
 	former law is continued in effect for that purpose.  For purposes
 	of this section, an offense was committed before the effective date
 	of this Act if any element of the offense occurred before that date.
 	       SECTION 4.  This Act takes effect immediately if it receives
 	a vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to each house, as
 	provided by Section 39, Article III, Texas Constitution.  If this
 	Act does not receive the vote necessary for immediate effect, this
 	Act takes effect September 1, 2023.
