H.B. No. 291




AN ACT

 	relating to occupational driver's licenses and to the renewal of
 	driver's licenses.
 	       BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF TEXAS:
 	       SECTION 1.  Section 521.001(a)(3), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	             (3)  "Driver's license" means an authorization issued
 	by the department for the operation of a motor vehicle. The term
 	includes:
 	                   (A)  a temporary license or learner license; and
 	                   (B)  an occupational driver's license.
 	       SECTION 2.  Subchapter L, Chapter 521, Transportation Code,
 	is amended to read as follows:
 	SUBCHAPTER L. OCCUPATIONAL DRIVER'S LICENSE
 	       Sec. 521.241.  DEFINITIONS. In this subchapter:
 	             (1)  "Essential need" means a need of a person to
 	operate [for the operation of] a motor vehicle:
 	                   (A)  in the performance of an occupation or trade
 	or for transportation to and from the place at which the person
 	practices the person's occupation or trade;
 	                   (B)  in the pursuit of an occupation or trade;
 	                   (C)  for transportation to and from an educational
 	facility in which the person is enrolled; or
 	                   (D) [(C)]  in the performance of essential
 	household duties.
 	             (2)  "Ignition interlock device" means a device that
 	uses a deep-lung breath analysis mechanism to make impractical the
 	operation of a motor vehicle if ethyl alcohol is detected in the
 	breath of the operator of the vehicle.
 	             (3)  "Offense relating to the operating of a motor
 	vehicle while intoxicated" has the meaning assigned by Section
 	49.09, Penal Code.
 	       Sec. 521.242.  ELIGIBILITY [PETITION]. (a) A person is
 	eligible to apply for an occupational driver's license if:
 	             (1)  the person's [whose] license has been suspended,
 	revoked, or canceled for a cause other than:
 	                   (A)  a physical or mental disability or
 	impairment; or
 	                   (B)  a determination by the department under
 	Section 521.294 that the person is incapable of safely operating a
 	motor vehicle;
 	             (2)  the person does not hold a driver's license and is
 	ineligible to obtain a driver's license because of a suspension
 	order, including an order due to a conviction or an order under
 	Chapter 524 or 724; or
 	             (3)  the person is ineligible to obtain a driver's
 	license because the person holds a driver's license issued by
 	another state or country that was suspended, revoked, or canceled
 	for a cause other than a physical or mental disability or
 	impairment. [conviction of an offense under Sections 49.04-49.08,
 	Penal Code]
 	       (b)  An occupational driver's license does not authorize a
 	person to operate a commercial motor vehicle to which Chapter 522
 	applies.
 	       Sec. 521.2421.  PETITION. (a) Except as provided by
 	Subsections (b) and (c), a person may apply for an occupational
 	driver's license by filing a verified petition with the clerk of a
 	justice, county, or district court with jurisdiction that includes
 	the [precinct or] county in which:
 	             (1)  the person resides; or
 	             (2)  the incident [offense] occurred for which the
 	license was suspended, revoked, or canceled.
 	       (b)  If a person's license has been automatically suspended,
 	revoked, or canceled due to a conviction of an offense as provided
 	by Subchapter O or P, the [A] person may apply for an occupational
 	driver's license by filing a verified petition only with the clerk
 	of the court in which the person was convicted [if:
 	             [(1)  the person's license has been automatically
 	suspended or canceled under this chapter for a conviction of an
 	offense under the laws of this state; and
 	             [(2)  the person has not been issued, in the 10 years
 	preceding the date of the filing of the petition, more than one
 	occupational license after a conviction under the laws of this
 	state].
 	       (c)  If a person's license is suspended, revoked, or canceled
 	due to a court order submitted to the department by a district,
 	county, or justice court, the person may apply for an occupational
 	driver's license by filing a verified petition with a court
 	described by Subsection (a) or the court that issued the order.
 	       (d) [(c)]  A petition filed under this section must:
 	             (1)  set forth in detail the petitioner's [person's]
 	essential need, including a description of the hours and location
 	of essential travel;
 	             (2)  describe the reason for the petitioner's license
 	suspension, revocation, or cancellation;
 	             (3)  provide evidence of the petitioner's financial
 	responsibility in accordance with Chapter 601; and
 	             (4)  include a certified abstract of the petitioner's
 	complete driving record.
 	       [(d)  A petition filed under Subsection (b) must state that
 	the petitioner was convicted in that court for an offense under the
 	laws of this state.
 	       [(e)  The clerk of the court shall file the petition as in any
 	other matter.]
 	       (f)  If a court lacks jurisdiction over a petition filed
 	under this section, the court shall dismiss the application. The
 	court may hold a hearing to determine if the court has jurisdiction
 	over the petition. If the petition is dismissed, the petitioner may
 	submit a written request for the petition to be reinstated within 14
 	days of the dismissal, stating the reason the court has
 	jurisdiction over the petition.
 	       Sec. 521.2422.  COURT COSTS. (a) A petitioner must pay the
 	filing fee the court charges for filing a civil action or file a
 	statement of inability to afford payment of court costs under the
 	Texas Rules of Civil Procedure. If a petition is dismissed under
 	Section 521.2421(f), the court shall refund any filing fee paid by
 	the petitioner under this subsection.
 	       (b)  If a petitioner files a statement of inability to afford
 	payment of court costs, the court may hold a hearing to determine
 	the person's ability to afford the payment of the filing fee. The
 	hearing may be held at the time the statement of inability to afford
 	payment of court costs is filed or at the time of the hearing to
 	determine the petitioner's essential need. If the court determines
 	the petitioner is able to afford the payment of the filing fee, the
 	court may not grant an occupational driver's license to the
 	petitioner until the petitioner pays the fee.
 	       Sec. 521.2423.  FORMS. A court shall make the forms required
 	for petitioning for an occupational driver's license and for the
 	statement of inability to afford payment of court costs available
 	at no cost.
 	       Sec. 521.2424.  COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES. A court may not
 	grant an occupational driver's license for the operation of a
 	commercial motor vehicle to which Chapter 522 applies. This
 	section does not prevent a person who has been issued a commercial
 	driver's license from obtaining an occupational driver's license
 	for the operation of a noncommercial motor vehicle.
 	       Sec. 521.243.  NOTICE TO STATE; PRESENTATION OF EVIDENCE.
 	(a) Unless the petition is dismissed under Section 521.2421(f),
 	the [The] clerk of the court shall send by certified mail to the
 	attorney representing the state a copy of the petition and notice of
 	the hearing if the petitioner's license was suspended, revoked, or
 	canceled following a conviction for:
 	             (1)  an offense under Section 19.05 or Sections
 	49.04-49.08, Penal Code; or
 	             (2)  an offense to which Section 521.342 applies.
 	       (b)  The court may notify the attorney representing the state
 	of any other hearing on a petition for an occupational driver's
 	license.
 	       (c)  A person who receives notice [a copy of a petition]
 	under Subsection (a) or (b) may attend the hearing and may present
 	evidence at the hearing for or against granting the petition.
 	       Sec. 521.244.  [HEARING; ORDER;] DETERMINATION OF ESSENTIAL
 	NEED; HEARING AND ORDER. (a) The judge shall hold a hearing on the
 	petition if the petitioner's license was suspended, revoked, or
 	canceled following a conviction for:
 	             (1)  an offense under Section 19.05 or Sections
 	49.04-49.08, Penal Code; or
 	             (2)  an offense to which Section 521.342 applies.
 	       (a-1)  If the petitioner's license was suspended, revoked,
 	or canceled for a reason other than a reason described by Subsection
 	(a), the judge may hold a hearing on the petition or may make a
 	determination of essential need based on the petition [The judge
 	who hears the petition shall sign an order finding whether an
 	essential need exists].
 	       [(b)  In determining whether an essential need exists, the
 	judge shall consider:
 	             [(1)  the petitioner's driving record; and
 	             [(2)  any evidence presented by a person under Section
 	521.243(b).
 	       [(c)  If the judge finds that there is an essential need, the
 	judge also, as part of the order, shall:
 	             [(1)  determine the actual need of the petitioner to
 	operate a motor vehicle; and
 	             [(2)  require the petitioner to provide evidence of
 	financial responsibility in accordance with Chapter 601.]
 	       (d)  Except as provided by Section 521.243(c) [521.243(b)],
 	the hearing on the petition may be ex parte. The hearing may be held
 	using electronic or telephonic means.
 	       (e)  Subject to Subsection (f), if the judge determines the
 	person is eligible for an occupational driver's license and has an
 	essential need, the judge shall enter an order granting the
 	petition. If the judge determines the person is ineligible for an
 	occupational driver's license or does not have an essential need,
 	the judge shall enter an order denying the petition.
 	       (f)  The judge may enter an order denying the petition based
 	on evidence presented at a hearing by the attorney representing the
 	state. The judge may also enter an order denying the petition if
 	the petitioner:
 	             (1)  is unable to present evidence of financial
 	responsibility under Chapter 601;
 	             (2)  has been convicted more than once in the 10 years
 	preceding the date of the petition of an offense to which Sections
 	49.04-49.08, Penal Code, apply; or
 	             (3)  is subject to a revocation order under Section
 	521.252 or 521.253 [A person convicted of an offense under Sections
 	49.04-49.08, Penal Code, who is restricted to the operation of a
 	motor vehicle equipped with an ignition interlock device is
 	entitled to receive an occupational license without a finding that
 	an essential need exists for that person, provided that the person
 	shows:
 	             [(1)  evidence of financial responsibility under
 	Chapter 601; and
 	             [(2)  proof the person has had an ignition interlock
 	device installed on each motor vehicle owned or operated by the
 	person].
 	       (g)  An order granting or denying an application for an
 	occupational driver's license may not be appealed.
 	       Sec. 521.245.  REQUIRED ALCOHOL DEPENDENCE COUNSELING. (a)
 	If the petitioner's license has been suspended under Chapter 524 or
 	724, or as the result of a conviction for an offense relating to the
 	operating of a motor vehicle while intoxicated, the court shall
 	require the petitioner to attend a program approved by the court
 	that is designed to provide counseling and rehabilitation services
 	to persons for alcohol dependence. The court may waive the
 	requirement on a showing of good cause [This requirement shall be
 	stated in the order granting the occupational license].
 	       (b)  The program required under Subsection (a) may not be the
 	program provided by Section 521.344 or by Article 42A.403 or
 	42A.404, Code of Criminal Procedure.
 	       (c)  The court may require the person to report periodically
 	to the court to verify that the person is attending the required
 	program.
 	       (d)  On finding that the person is not attending the program
 	as required, the court may:
 	             (1)  revoke the order granting the occupational
 	driver's license, as provided by Section 521.252; or
 	             (2)  if the person is not currently restricted to the
 	operation of a motor vehicle with an ignition interlock device
 	installed, modify the order to include that restriction, as
 	provided by Section 521.246. [The court shall send a certified copy
 	of the order revoking the license to the department.
 	       [(e)  On receipt of the copy under Subsection (d), the
 	department shall suspend the person's occupational license for:
 	             [(1)  60 days, if the original driver's license
 	suspension was under Chapter 524; or
 	             [(2)  120 days, if the original driver's license
 	suspension was under Chapter 724.
 	       [(f)  A suspension under Subsection (e):
 	             [(1)  takes effect on the date on which the court signs
 	the order revoking the occupational license; and
 	             [(2)  is cumulative of the original suspension.
 	       [(g)  A person is not eligible for an occupational license
 	during a period of suspension under Subsection (e).]
 	       Sec. 521.246.  IGNITION INTERLOCK DEVICE REQUIREMENT. (a)
 	Subject to Subsection (b-1), the [If the person's license has been
 	suspended after a conviction of an offense under Sections
 	49.04-49.08, Penal Code, the] judge shall restrict the person to
 	the operation of a motor vehicle equipped with an ignition
 	interlock device if:
 	             (1)  the person is currently under an order restricting
 	the person to the operation of a motor vehicle equipped with an
 	ignition interlock device, including an order imposed as a
 	condition of bond; or
 	             (2)  the person's license has been suspended, revoked,
 	or canceled after a conviction for an offense under Sections
 	49.04-49.08, Penal Code.
 	       (b)  On a finding of good cause, the judge may restrict the
 	person to the operation of a motor vehicle equipped with an ignition
 	interlock device in a case not described by Subsection (a).
 	       (b-1)  The court may waive the ignition interlock device
 	requirement under Subsection (a) if the court finds the requirement
 	is not necessary for the safety of the community and the waiver is
 	in the best interest of justice.
 	       (c)  The person shall obtain the ignition interlock device at
 	the person's own expense unless the court finds that to do so is not
 	in the best interest of justice and enters that finding in the
 	record. If the court determines that the person is unable to pay
 	for the device, the court may impose a reasonable payment schedule
 	for a term not to exceed twice the period of the court's order.
 	       (d)  The court shall order the ignition interlock device to
 	remain installed for the duration of the period of suspension,
 	unless the court finds:
 	             (1)  good cause for the removal of the device; and
 	             (2)  the device is not necessary for the safety of the
 	community.
 	       (e)  A person to whom this section applies may operate a
 	motor vehicle without the installation of an approved ignition
 	interlock device if:
 	             (1)  the person is required to operate a motor vehicle
 	in the course and scope of the person's employment;
 	             (2)  the vehicle is owned by the person's employer;
 	             (3)  the employer is not owned or controlled by the
 	person whose driving privilege is restricted;
 	             (4)  the employer is notified of the driving privilege
 	restriction; and
 	             (5)  proof of that notification is with the vehicle.
 	       [(f)  A previous conviction may not be used for purposes of
 	restricting a person to the operation of a motor vehicle equipped
 	with an interlock ignition device under this section if:
 	             [(1)  the previous conviction was a final conviction
 	for an offense under Sections 49.04-49.08, Penal Code, and was for
 	an offense committed more than 10 years before the instant offense
 	for which the person was convicted; and
 	             [(2)  the person has not been convicted of an offense
 	under Sections 49.04-49.08 of that code committed within 10 years
 	before the date on which the instant offense for which the person
 	was convicted.]
 	       Sec. 521.2461.  TESTING FOR ALCOHOL OR CONTROLLED
 	SUBSTANCES. The court granting an occupational driver's license
 	under this subchapter may require as a condition of the license that
 	the person submit to periodic testing for alcohol or controlled
 	substances, to be conducted by an entity specified by the court, if
 	the person's license has been suspended, revoked, or canceled under
 	Chapter 524 or 724 or as a result of the person's conviction for
 	[of] an offense relating to the operating [involving the operation]
 	of a motor vehicle while intoxicated.
 	       Sec. 521.2462.  SUPERVISION OF PERSON ISSUED OCCUPATIONAL
 	DRIVER'S LICENSE. (a) The court granting an occupational driver's
 	license under this subchapter may order the person receiving the
 	license to submit to supervision for the purpose of verifying the
 	person's compliance with the conditions specified by the order
 	granting the license, including [the] conditions specified in
 	accordance with Section 521.248.
 	       (a-1)  The court may order the supervision of the person to
 	be conducted by:
 	             (1)  the local community supervision and corrections
 	department; or
 	             (2)  a personal bond office established under Article
 	17.42, Code of Criminal Procedure.
 	       (a-2)  If the court orders the person's supervision to be
 	conducted by the local community supervision and corrections
 	department, the court shall order the person to pay a monthly
 	administrative fee under Section 76.015, Government Code.
 	       (a-3)  If the court orders the person's supervision to be
 	conducted by a personal bond office, the office may collect from the
 	person a reasonable administrative fee of not less than $25 and not
 	more than $60 per month.
 	       (b)  The court may order the supervision to continue until
 	the end of the period of suspension, revocation, or cancellation of
 	the person's driver's license, including any extensions of that
 	period.
 	       (c)  The court for good cause may modify or terminate
 	supervision before the end of the period of license suspension,
 	revocation, or cancellation.
 	       Sec. 521.2465.  RESTRICTED LICENSE. (a) On receipt of
 	notice that a person has been restricted to the use of a motor
 	vehicle equipped with an ignition interlock device, the department
 	shall notify that person that the person's driver's license expires
 	on the 30th day after the date of the notice. On application by the
 	person and payment of a fee of $10, the department shall issue a
 	special restricted license that conspicuously indicates that the
 	person is authorized to operate only a motor vehicle equipped with
 	an ignition interlock device.
 	       (a-1)  The notice provided to the person by the department
 	under Subsection (a) may be provided by:
 	             (1)  first class mail; or
 	             (2)  e-mail if the person has provided an e-mail
 	address to the department and has elected to receive notice
 	electronically.
 	       (b)  On receipt of a copy of a court order removing the
 	restriction or at the end of the period of suspension, as
 	applicable, the department shall issue the person a driver's
 	license without the restriction.
 	       Sec. 521.247.  APPROVAL OF IGNITION INTERLOCK DEVICES BY
 	DEPARTMENT. (a) The department shall adopt rules for the approval
 	of ignition interlock devices used under this subchapter.
 	       (b)  The department by rule shall establish general
 	standards for the calibration and maintenance of the devices. The
 	manufacturer or an authorized representative of the manufacturer is
 	responsible for calibrating and maintaining the device.
 	       (c)  If the department approves a device, the department
 	shall notify the manufacturer of that approval in writing. Written
 	notice from the department to a manufacturer is admissible in a
 	civil or criminal proceeding in this state. The manufacturer shall
 	reimburse the department for any cost incurred by the department in
 	approving the device.
 	       (d)  The department is not liable in a civil or criminal
 	proceeding that arises from the use of an approved device.
 	       Sec. 521.2475.  IGNITION INTERLOCK DEVICE EVALUATION. (a)
 	On January 1 of each year, the department shall issue an evaluation
 	of each ignition interlock device approved under Section 521.247
 	using guidelines established by the National Highway Traffic Safety
 	Administration, including:
 	             (1)  whether the device provides accurate detection of
 	alveolar air;
 	             (2)  the moving retest abilities of the device;
 	             (3)  the use of tamper-proof blood alcohol content
 	level software by the device;
 	             (4)  the anticircumvention design of the device;
 	             (5)  the recalibration requirements of the device; and
 	             (6)  the breath action required by the operator.
 	       (b)  The department shall assess the cost of preparing the
 	evaluation equally against each manufacturer of an approved device.
 	       Sec. 521.2476.  MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR VENDORS OF IGNITION
 	INTERLOCK DEVICES. (a) The department by rule shall establish:
 	             (1)  minimum standards for vendors of ignition
 	interlock devices who conduct business in this state; and
 	             (2)  procedures to ensure compliance with those
 	standards, including procedures for the inspection of a vendor's
 	facilities.
 	       (b)  The minimum standards shall require each vendor to:
 	             (1)  be authorized by the department to do business in
 	this state;
 	             (2)  install a device only if the device is approved
 	under Section 521.247;
 	             (3)  obtain liability insurance providing coverage for
 	damages arising out of the operation or use of devices in amounts
 	and under the terms specified by the department;
 	             (4)  install the device and activate any
 	anticircumvention feature of the device within a reasonable time
 	after the vendor receives notice that installation is ordered by a
 	court;
 	             (5)  install and inspect the device in accordance with
 	any applicable court order;
 	             (6)  repair or replace a device not later than 48 hours
 	after receiving notice of a complaint regarding the operation of
 	the device;
 	             (7)  submit a written report of any violation of a court
 	order to that court and to the person's supervising officer, if any,
 	not later than 48 hours after the vendor discovers the violation;
 	             (8)  maintain a record of each action taken by the
 	vendor with respect to each device installed by the vendor,
 	including each action taken as a result of an attempt to circumvent
 	the device, until at least the fifth anniversary after the date of
 	installation;
 	             (9)  make a copy of the record available for inspection
 	by or send a copy of the record to any court, supervising officer,
 	or the department on request; and
 	             (10)  annually provide to the department a written
 	report of each service and ignition interlock device feature made
 	available by the vendor.
 	       (c)  The department may revoke the department's
 	authorization for a vendor to do business in this state if the
 	vendor or an officer or employee of the vendor violates:
 	             (1)  any law of this state that applies to the vendor;
 	or
 	             (2)  any rule adopted by the department under this
 	section or another law that applies to the vendor.
 	       (d)  A vendor shall reimburse the department for the
 	reasonable cost of conducting each inspection of the vendor's
 	facilities under this section.
 	       [(e)  In this section, "offense relating to the operating of
 	a motor vehicle while intoxicated" has the meaning assigned by
 	Section 49.09, Penal Code.]
 	       Sec. 521.248.  ORDER GRANTING LICENSE [REQUIREMENTS]. (a)
 	An order granting an occupational driver's license must specify:
 	             (1)  the hours of the day and days of the week during
 	which the person may operate a motor vehicle;
 	             (2)  the reasons for which the person may operate a
 	motor vehicle;
 	             (3)  areas or routes of travel permitted;
 	             (4)  that the person may not operate a commercial motor
 	vehicle;
 	             (5)  that the person is restricted to the operation of a
 	motor vehicle equipped with an ignition interlock device, if
 	applicable; [and]
 	             (6) [(5)]  that the person must submit to periodic
 	testing for alcohol or controlled substances, if applicable;
 	             (7)  that the person is required to attend alcohol
 	dependence counseling, if applicable; and
 	             (8)  that the person is required to submit to
 	supervision to ensure compliance with conditions of the order, if
 	applicable.
 	       (b)  The person may not operate a motor vehicle for more than
 	four hours in any 24-hour period, except that on a showing of
 	necessity the court may allow the person to drive for any period
 	determined by the court that does not exceed 12 hours in any 24-hour
 	period.
 	       (c)  An order granting an occupational driver's license
 	remains valid until the end of the period of suspension,
 	revocation, or cancellation of the person's regular driver's
 	license.
 	       (d)  A person who is restricted to the operation of a motor
 	vehicle equipped with an ignition interlock device may not be
 	subject to any time of travel, reason for travel, or location of
 	travel restrictions described by Subsection (a)(1), (2), or (3) or
 	(b).
 	       (e)  An order granting an occupational driver's license may
 	require the person to keep a travel log showing the date, time, and
 	location of travel.  The court may require the person to show the
 	travel log to demonstrate compliance with the conditions of the
 	order.
 	       (f)  The court shall give a copy of the order to the person
 	and inform the person that they must comply with any requirements
 	of the department for the issuance of an occupational driver's
 	license.
 	       (g)  An order issued under this section may be modified at
 	any time by the court without a hearing or payment of a filing fee.
 	The issuance date of the order is not changed by a modification.  If
 	the order is modified, the court shall deliver a certified copy to
 	the person and to the department.
 	       Sec. 521.249.  NOTICE TO DEPARTMENT; ISSUANCE OF
 	OCCUPATIONAL DRIVER'S LICENSE. (a) The court shall send a
 	certified copy of the petition and the court order setting out the
 	judge's findings and restrictions to the department. The person
 	may use a copy of the order as a restricted license until the 45th
 	day after the date on which the order takes effect.
 	       (a-1)  It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under
 	Sections 521.025 and 521.457 that the person has applied for and
 	complied with the department's requirements for the issuance of an
 	occupational driver's license on or before the 10th day after the
 	issuance of the court order but has not been issued the license.
 	       (b)  On receipt of the copy under this section and after
 	compliance with Chapter 601, the department shall issue an
 	occupational driver's license to the person. The license must
 	refer on its face to the court order.
 	       Sec. 521.250.  COURT ORDER IN OPERATOR'S POSSESSION. A
 	person who is issued an occupational driver's license shall have in
 	the person's possession a certified copy of the court order
 	granting the license while operating a motor vehicle. The person
 	shall allow a peace officer to examine the order on request.
 	       [Sec. 521.251. EFFECTIVE DATE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE. (a)
 	If a person's license is suspended under Chapter 524 or 724 and the
 	person has not had a prior suspension arising from an
 	alcohol-related or drug-related enforcement contact in the five
 	years preceding the date of the person's arrest, an order under this
 	subchapter granting the person an occupational license takes effect
 	immediately. However, the court shall order the person to comply
 	with the counseling and rehabilitation program required under
 	Section 521.245.
 	       [(b)  If the person's driver's license has been suspended as
 	a result of an alcohol-related or drug-related enforcement contact
 	during the five years preceding the date of the person's arrest, the
 	order may not take effect before the 91st day after the effective
 	date of the suspension.
 	       [(c)  If the person's driver's license has been suspended as
 	a result of a conviction of an offense under Sections 49.04-49.08,
 	Penal Code, during the five years preceding the date of the person's
 	arrest, the order may not take effect before the 181st day after the
 	effective date of the suspension.
 	       [(d)  Notwithstanding any other provision in this section,
 	if the person's driver's license has been suspended as a result of a
 	second or subsequent conviction under Sections 49.04-49.08, Penal
 	Code, committed within five years of the date on which the most
 	recent preceding offense was committed, an order granting the
 	person an occupational license may not take effect before the first
 	anniversary of the effective date of the suspension.
 	       [(d-1)  Notwithstanding Subsections (b), (c), and (d), the
 	court may issue an occupational license to a person if the person
 	submits proof the person has an ignition interlock device installed
 	on each motor vehicle owned or operated by the person. If a person
 	issued an occupational license under this subsection fails to
 	maintain an installed ignition interlock device on each motor
 	vehicle owned or operated by the person, the court shall revoke the
 	occupational license under Section 521.252 and reinstate the
 	suspension of the person's driver's license. A person granted an
 	occupational license under this subsection may not be ordered,
 	under Section 521.2462, to submit to the supervision of the local
 	community supervision and corrections department or a personal bond
 	office established under Article 17.42, Code of Criminal Procedure,
 	unless the order is entered by a court of record.
 	       [(e)  For the purposes of this section, "alcohol-related or
 	drug-related enforcement contact" has the meaning assigned by
 	Section 524.001.]
 	       Sec. 521.252.  LICENSE REVOCATION. (a) The court that signs
 	an order granting an occupational driver's license may, at any
 	time, issue [at any time] an order revoking the license for good
 	cause.
 	       (b)  The court that signed an order granting an occupational
 	driver's license shall issue an order revoking the license if the
 	person is restricted to the operation of a motor vehicle equipped
 	with an ignition interlock device and operates a vehicle that is not
 	equipped with an ignition interlock device, unless authorized to
 	operate the vehicle under Section 521.246(e).
 	       (c)  The court shall send a certified copy of the order to the
 	person and to the department.
 	       Sec. 521.253.  CRIMINAL OFFENSE; PENALTY. (a) A person who
 	holds an occupational driver's license commits an offense if the
 	person:
 	             (1)  operates a motor vehicle in violation of a
 	restriction imposed on the license; or
 	             (2)  fails to have in the person's possession a
 	certified copy of the court order as required under Section
 	521.250.
 	       (b)  An offense under this section is a Class B misdemeanor.
 	       (c)  On conviction of an offense under this section, the
 	convicting court shall:
 	             (1)  issue an order revoking the occupational driver's
 	license; and
 	             (2)  deliver the revocation order to the person, the
 	court that issued the order granting the occupational driver's
 	license, and the department [and the order granting that license
 	are revoked].
 	       SECTION 3.  Section 521.320(e), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (e)  A person whose license is suspended under Subsection (a)
 	remains eligible to receive an occupational driver's license under
 	Subchapter L.
 	       SECTION 4.  Section 521.342(c), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (c)  A person whose license is suspended under Subsection (a)
 	remains eligible to receive an occupational driver's license under
 	Subchapter L.  Suspension under Subsection (a) is not a suspension
 	for physical or mental disability or impairment for purposes of
 	eligibility to apply for an occupational driver's license under
 	Subchapter L.
 	       SECTION 5.  Section 521.350(c), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (c)  A person whose license is suspended under Subsection (a)
 	remains eligible to receive an occupational driver's license under
 	Subchapter L, except that an occupational driver's license issued
 	to a person younger than 18 years of age whose license is suspended
 	under this section may permit the operation of a motor vehicle only
 	for transportation to and from an educational facility in which the
 	person is enrolled and the place where the person resides.
 	       SECTION 6.  Section 521.377(b), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (b)  A person whose license is suspended under Section
 	521.372 remains eligible to receive an occupational driver's
 	license under Subchapter L.  Suspension under Section 521.372 is
 	not a suspension for physical or mental disability or impairment
 	for purposes of eligibility to apply for an occupational driver's
 	license under Subchapter L.
 	       SECTION 7.  Section 521.421(d), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (d)  The fee for issuance or renewal of an occupational
 	driver's license is $10.
 	       SECTION 8.  Section 601.332, Transportation Code, is amended
 	by adding Subsection (c) to read as follows:
 	       (c)  A person whose license is suspended under Subsection (a)
 	is eligible for an occupational driver's license under Subchapter
 	L, Chapter 521.
 	       SECTION 9.  Section 706.005(a), Transportation Code, is
 	amended to read as follows:
 	       (a)  A political subdivision shall immediately notify the
 	department that there is no cause to continue to deny renewal of a
 	person's driver's license based on the person's previous failure to
 	appear or failure to pay or satisfy a judgment ordering the payment
 	of a fine and cost in the manner ordered by the court in a matter
 	involving an offense described by Section 706.002(a), on payment of
 	a reimbursement fee, or on a finding by the court that the person is
 	indigent and not required to pay a reimbursement fee, as provided by
 	Section 706.006 and:
 	             (1)  the perfection of an appeal of the case for which
 	the warrant of arrest was issued or judgment arose;
 	             (2)  the dismissal of the charge for which the warrant
 	of arrest was issued or judgment arose, other than a dismissal with
 	prejudice by motion of the appropriate prosecuting attorney for
 	lack of evidence;
 	             (3)  the posting of bond or the giving of other security
 	to reinstate the charge for which the warrant was issued;
 	             (4)  the payment or discharge of the fine and cost owed
 	on an outstanding judgment of the court; or
 	             (5)  other suitable arrangement to satisfy [pay] the
 	fine and cost within the court's discretion.
 	       SECTION 10.  Section 54.042(e), Family Code, is amended to
 	read as follows:
 	       (e)  A child whose driver's license or permit has been
 	suspended or denied pursuant to this section may, if the child is
 	otherwise eligible for, and fulfills the requirements for issuance
 	of, a provisional driver's license or permit under Chapter 521,
 	Transportation Code, apply for and receive an occupational driver's
 	license in accordance with the provisions of Subchapter L of that
 	chapter.
 	       SECTION 11.  Section 75.014(e), Government Code, is amended
 	to read as follows:
 	       (e)  The County Courts at Law No. 6 and No. 7 of El Paso
 	County, Texas, are designated as criminal misdemeanor courts.
 	Courts designated as criminal misdemeanor courts shall give
 	preference to and have primary responsibility for:
 	             (1)  criminal misdemeanor cases;
 	             (2)  appeals or petitions under Section 501.052,
 	521.2421 [521.242], 521.302, or 524.041, Transportation Code;
 	             (3)  misdemeanor bail bond and personal bond forfeiture
 	cases; and
 	             (4)  appeals de novo from the municipal and justice
 	courts.
 	       SECTION 12.  Section 123.009, Government Code, is amended to
 	read as follows:
 	       Sec. 123.009.  OCCUPATIONAL DRIVER'S LICENSE.
 	Notwithstanding Section 521.2421 [521.242], Transportation Code,
 	if a participant's driver's license has been suspended as a result
 	of an alcohol-related or drug-related enforcement contact, as
 	defined by Section 524.001, Transportation Code, or as a result of a
 	conviction under Section 49.04, 49.07, or 49.08, Penal Code, the
 	judge or magistrate administering a drug court program under this
 	chapter may order that an occupational driver's license be issued
 	to the participant.  An order issued under this section is subject
 	to Sections 521.248, 521.249, 521.250, 521.252, and 521.253
 	[521.248-521.252], Transportation Code, except that any reference
 	to a petition under Section 521.2421 [521.242] of that code does not
 	apply.
 	       SECTION 13.  Section 524.022(d), Transportation Code, is
 	repealed.
 	       SECTION 14.  This Act takes effect September 1, 2023.
