H.B. No. 558



AN ACT

 	relating to the taking of a blood specimen on arrest for certain
 	intoxication offenses.
 	       BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF TEXAS:
 	       SECTION 1.  Section 724.012, Transportation Code, is amended
 	by adding Subsections (a-1) and (e) and amending Subsections (b)
 	and (c) to read as follows:
 	       (a-1)  A peace officer shall require the taking of a specimen
 	of the person's blood if:
 	             (1)  the officer arrests the person for an offense
 	under Chapter 49, Penal Code, involving the operation of a motor
 	vehicle or a watercraft;
 	             (2)  the person refuses the officer's request to submit
 	to the taking of a specimen voluntarily;
 	             (3)  the person was the operator of a motor vehicle or a
 	watercraft involved in an accident that the officer reasonably
 	believes occurred as a result of the offense; and
 	             (4)  at the time of the arrest, the officer reasonably
 	believes that as a direct result of the accident any individual has
 	died, will die, or has suffered serious bodily injury.
 	       (b)  Subject to Subsection (a-1), a [A] peace officer shall
 	require the taking of a specimen of the person's breath or blood
 	under any of the following circumstances if the officer arrests the
 	person for an offense under Chapter 49, Penal Code, involving the
 	operation of a motor vehicle or a watercraft and the person refuses
 	the officer's request to submit to the taking of a specimen
 	voluntarily:
 	             (1)  the person was the operator of a motor vehicle or a
 	watercraft involved in an accident that the officer reasonably
 	believes occurred as a result of the offense and, at the time of the
 	arrest, the officer reasonably believes that as a direct result of
 	the accident[:
 	                   [(A)  any individual has died or will die;
 	                   [(B)  an individual other than the person has
 	suffered serious bodily injury; or
 	                   [(C)]  an individual other than the person has
 	suffered bodily injury and been transported to a hospital or other
 	medical facility for medical treatment;
 	             (2)  the offense for which the officer arrests the
 	person is an offense under Section 49.045, Penal Code; or
 	             (3)  at the time of the arrest, the officer possesses or
 	receives reliable information from a credible source that the
 	person:
 	                   (A)  has been previously convicted of or placed on
 	community supervision for an offense under Section 49.045, 49.07,
 	or 49.08, Penal Code, or an offense under the laws of another state
 	containing elements substantially similar to the elements of an
 	offense under those sections; or
 	                   (B)  on two or more occasions, has been previously
 	convicted of or placed on community supervision for an offense
 	under Section 49.04, 49.05, 49.06, or 49.065, Penal Code, or an
 	offense under the laws of another state containing elements
 	substantially similar to the elements of an offense under those
 	sections.
 	       (c)  Except as provided by Subsection (a-1), the [The] peace
 	officer shall designate the type of specimen to be taken.
 	       (e)  A peace officer may not require the taking of a specimen
 	under this section unless the officer:
 	             (1)  obtains a warrant directing that the specimen be
 	taken; or
 	             (2)  has probable cause to believe that exigent
 	circumstances exist.
 	       SECTION 2.  Section 724.013, Transportation Code, is amended
 	to read as follows:
 	       Sec. 724.013.  PROHIBITION ON TAKING SPECIMEN IF PERSON
 	REFUSES; EXCEPTION. Except as provided by Section 724.012(a-1) or
 	(b) [Section 724.012(b)], a specimen may not be taken if a person
 	refuses to submit to the taking of a specimen designated by a peace
 	officer.
 	       SECTION 3.  The change in law made by this Act applies only
 	to an arrest that occurs on or after the effective date of this Act.
 	An arrest that occurs before the effective date of this Act is
 	governed by the law in effect on the date the arrest occurred, and
 	the former law is continued in effect for that purpose.
 	       SECTION 4.  This Act takes effect September 1, 2021.
