TEXAS ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
TITLE 37. PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORRECTIONS
CHAPTER 229.  TEXAS PEACE OFFICERS' MEMORIAL MONUMENT

      Sec. 229.1.  ELIGIBILITY FOR MEMORIAL MONUMENT.  (a)  A person is eligible to have the person's name on the Memorial Monument if the person was killed in the line of duty and was:
            (1)  a law enforcement officer or peace officer for this state or a political subdivision of this state under Article 2.12, Code of Criminal Procedure, or other law;
            (2)  a federal law enforcement officer or special agent performing duties in this state, including those officers under Article 2.122, Code of Criminal Procedure;
            (3)  a corrections or detention officer or county or municipal jailer employed or appointed by a municipal, county, or state penal institution in this state; or
            (4)  a Texas peace officer who, in historical perspective, would be eligible under any of the preceding criteria.
      (b)  A person identified in subsection (a) of this section is eligible for inclusion on the Memorial Monument if:
            (1)  the fatal incident was a direct result of a line of duty, on or off duty incident;
            (2)  the fatal incident was an indirect result but directly attributed to a line of duty, on or off duty incident;
            (3)  the fatal incident was a direct result of a felonious assault on the officer, perpetrated because of the officer's status, regardless of duty status; or
            (4)  the Employees Retirement System of Texas authorizes benefits to the eligible survivors of the person as provided by Chapter 615, Government Code.
      (c)  The effective date of this section is May 1, 2018.

      Sec. 229.3.  NOMINATION AND SELECTION.  (a)  Nominations for inclusion on the Memorial Monument must be submitted to the commission in accordance with Article 3105.0035, Government Code.
      (b)  In order to make a preliminary recommendation to the Commission on whether a nominee is eligible for inclusion on the Memorial Monument, the executive director or designee shall accept supporting documentation affirming a nominee's eligibility, including:
            (1)  certified copy of the Law Enforcement Agency incident report or other records;
            (2)  certified copy of the Coroner's report;
            (3)  sworn affidavit completed by the law enforcement agency chief executive officer or any other person with knowledge of the incident accepting responsibility for the information submitted, accompanied by a description detailing the incident and death;
            (4)  certified copy of statements of witnesses to the fatal incident;
            (5)  an original letter or petition of a family member with verified supporting documents;
            (6)  reproduced documents verified by a state or county historical commission chairperson;
            (7)  news articles or other published materials supported by documents listed above; or
            (8)  any other documentation which would reasonably substantiate a finding by the commission.
      (c)  The commission shall review the recommendations of the executive director concerning names of deceased officers for inclusion on the Memorial Monument at a regularly scheduled meeting and make its final determination according to §3105.0035 Texas Government Code.
      (d)  Nominations must be submitted to the Commission no later than 30 days prior to a quarterly meeting in which the Commission will be taking up the executive director's preliminary recommendations.
      (e)  The effective date of this section is May 1, 2018.

      Sec. 229.7.  DEATHS NOT INCLUDED.  (a)  An officer whose death is attributed to natural causes, is not eligible for inclusion, except when a medical condition arises out of a specific response to a violation of the law or an emergency situation causing an officer's death, or causing the officer's death during or after a period of hospitalization following the specific response to the violation of the law or emergency situation.
      (b)  An officer whose death is attributed to any of the following is not eligible for inclusion:
            (1)  when caused as a result of or during the officer's commission of a crime;
            (2)  as a direct result of the officer's voluntary alcohol or controlled substance abuse; or
            (3)  when caused by the officer's intention to bring about the officer's own death.
      (c)  The effective date of this section is July 6, 2009.

