TEXAS ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
TITLE 37. PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORRECTIONS
CHAPTER 225.  SPECIALIZED LICENSES

      Sec. 225.1.  ISSUANCE OF JAILER LICENSE THROUGH A CONTRACT JAIL FACILITY.  (a)  The commission shall issue a jailer license to an individual appointed by a contract jail facility who meets all the minimum standards for jailer licensure, and submits both the current commission application and any required fees.
      (b)  A contract jail facility that appoints an individual who already holds a valid, active jailer license shall meet the appointment requirements of §217.7 of this title (relating to Reporting the Appointment and Termination of a Licensee), including submitting any required fee.
      (c)  A contract jail facility that appoints an individual with a 180-day break in service shall meet the appointment requirements of §217.7 of this title, including submitting any required fee.
      (d)  The commission shall issue a temporary jailer license to an individual appointed by a contract jail facility who meets all the minimum standards for licensure except for training and testing, and submits both the current commission application and any required fees. A temporary jailer license expires 12 months from the appointment date.
      (e)  Individuals licensed as jailers appointed by a contract jail facility shall meet the continuing education requirements in Chapter 218 of this title.
      (f)  The effective date of this section is September 1, 2016.

      Sec. 225.3.  ISSUANCE OF PEACE OFFICER LICENSE THROUGH A MEDICAL CORPORATION.  (a)  The commission shall issue a peace officer license to an individual appointed by a medical corporation who meets all the minimum standards for peace officer licensure, and submits both the current commission application and any required fees.
      (b)  A medical corporation that appoints an individual who already holds a valid, active peace officer license shall meet the appointment requirements of §217.7 (relating to Reporting the Appointment and Termination of a Licensee), including submitting any required fee.
      (c)  A medical corporation that appoints an individual with a 180-day break in service shall meet the appointment requirements of §217.7 of this title, including submitting any required fee.
      (d)  Individuals licensed as peace officers appointed by a medical corporation shall meet the continuing education requirements in Chapter 218 of this title.
      (e)  The effective date of this section is September 1, 2016.

